"In Latin important civilizations developed, as Caral (the oldest civilization in America, which developed in central Peru), the Anasazi, Pueblo Indians, quimbaya, Nazca, Chimu, Chavin, Paracas, Moche, Huari , lima, Zapotec, Mixtec, Totonac, Toltec, Olmec and Chibcha, and the corresponding advanced civilizations empires of Teotihuacan, Tiwanaku, Mayan, Aztec and Inca, among many others. "
"Spanish and Portuguese Empires in 1790."
"They also settled in the South American republics of people of African descent who escaped from slavery to which they had been reduced by the Portuguese, like the Quilombo of Palmares Quilombo or Macaco."
"In 1804, African slaves in Haiti revolted against the French colonists, declaring the independence of this country and creating the first modern state with African leaders."
"From 1809.23 peoples under the dominion of Spain led a Spanish-American War of Independence, continent-wide, which led, after complex processes, to the emergence of several nations: Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Panama , Chile, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela. in 1844 and 1898 the process was completed with the independence of the Dominican Republic and Cuba, respectively Republic. "
"In 1816, a huge South American independent state, called Gran Colombia, which included the territories of present Panama, Colombia, Venezuela and Ecuador and parts of Brazil, Costa Rica, Guyana, Honduras, Nicaragua and Peru was formed. The Republic he dissolved in 1830. "
"After emancipation American countries have followed a mixed development with each other. During the nineteenth century, the United States established itself as a power of global and replaced Europe as the dominant power in the region."
"In Central America, the rivers are short and relate mainly to the Atlantic seaboard These rivers serve several functions, even serving as borders;. Such is the case of the Segovia or Coco rivers (between Honduras and Nicaragua), the Lempa River (Guatemala , El Salvador and Honduras) and the river San Juan (between Costa Rica and Nicaragua). in this area, the lakes are also lesser extent, highlighting Nicaragua, Managua and Gatun lakes, the latter built by man, located in the Panama Canal, and which provides the necessary water for ships to save the level differences. "
"Already in America South, reappears side of the Pacific, even though the rivers of the slope of the Atlantic are longer important. Of particular note in the southern part of the continent the Orinoco, the Parana-Rio system Plata and Amazon . the Amazon river is the largest river and longest river in the world, and is the largest river basin in the world. Among the most important lakes of America of the South there are the lake Maracaibo, Titicaca, the Poopó and Buenos Aires / General Carrera. "
"As for the flora of America of the North, space which are the United States, Canada and Mexico, we can find pine, mahogany, cedar, conifer, cactus, agave, finally, more than 17 000 species of vascular plants and more than 1,800 plant species flores.25 25 "
"In Central America, the flora is represented by representations of American species of the North and America South, as well as endemic and unique species of the territory, with more than 44 000 species of plants, their main species represented in the flora are Annona macroprophyllata, Gliricidia sepium, Mammea American, Manilkara zapota, Pithecellobium sweet, Myrciaria floribunda, pine, mahogany, avocado, guava, tamarind, palm trees, bananas, cherries, pineapples, Couma macrocarpa, Lepanthes guatemalensis and Tithonia rotundifolia. "
"Wildlife in the Caribbean or West Indies consists of 450 species of fish, 600 species of birds, 500 species of reptiles, 170 amphibians and 90 species of mammals. The best known are the barracuda, grouper, brunette, the cortacubas, the canary in the mangrove and green heron, the Puerto Rican Amazon, the yacutinga and plain pigeon, green iguanas and blue iguana, iguana Mona, the rhinoceros iguana, hawksbill, the golden coqui, dolphin, manatee, almiquí (endemic to the West Indies) and several species of bats, and humpback whale as migratory species. Other species such as the Caribbean monk seal is extinct in recent centuries by the direct action of the hombre.29 30 31 "
"Finally cold climates extend along the ends of the continent near the poles, especially in North America Tundra is along much of Alaska and Canada, and in the extreme southern part of South;. By effect high in the Andean Puna and much of the mountainous areas. Finally, the polar climate in Greenland and cold weather by height in mountainous areas of the Rockies and the Andes. "
"The total number of languages ​​of America far exceeds the five hundreds, between languages, dialects and patois. The main languages ​​are those corresponding to the introduced by European settlers, followed by the languages ​​of the main Amerindian cultures."
"Together with Quechua, Aymara is also an officer in Bolivia, while in Peru it is only where prevalece.54 also Aymara is the first language of 18% of the population in Bolivia, and is the main Amerindian language of southern Peru and northern Chile. there are also speakers of the language in northern Argentina.52 55 "
"In the territory of Greenland Greenlandic it is official."
"Different languages, such as German and Italian are still spoken by immigrants who came to America during the late nineteenth century and throughout the twentieth century. The German is spoken predominantly in the South Region of Brazil, southern Chile and some regions of Argentina, Peru, Paraguay, Mexico and Venezuela, among others. low German is spoken in Paraguay, Mexico, United States, Argentina, Canada, Belize and Bolivia. the Italian is spoken in the United States, Canada, Argentina, Brazil, Peru, Chile, Uruguay, Venezuela, Mexico and Ecuador. "
"Japanese is spoken, to a greater degree in the United States, Brazil and Peru, which are the countries hosting the largest number of Japanese immigrants, but also spoken in countries with small Japanese colonies."
"Historically, before the advent of European colonization, the entire population was polytheistic, with important rituals of Mayan origin, Quechua, Aztec, Olmec, etc. With the arrival of Europeans, Christianity was introduced in America, while the pre-Columbian paganism was gradually disappearing, there are still Small practitioners minorities in countries like Mexico, Peru, Bolivia and Guatemala. However as Europeans brought African slaves, other pagan rituals were incorporated as Santeria, voodoo, etc., which have strong presence in countries like the United States, Brazil, Haiti, Dominican Republic, Cuba, Colombia and Panama. Since the last you decades of the nineteenth century, most countries have no official religion. "
"Today, Christianity is the majority religion in all countries of the American continent, but different manifestation. The main religion in Christianity and all the religious context of America, is Catholicism. Historically, Catholic countries have been Latin America and the Caribbean, while Anglo-Saxon America were Protestant. But Canada, despite being a self-styled country 'Anglo-Saxon', the Catholic religion is the majority percentage. High to low, countries where Catholicism is professed by more 60% of the population would be Paraguay, Ecuador, Mexico and Peru (over 80%), Bolivia, Venezuela, Puerto Rico, Argentina, Colombia and Panama (over 70%) Dominican Republic, Brazil and Costa Rica ( with more than 60%), countries where between 50-59% of the population is Catholic would be from highest to lowest Nicaragua, Chile, El Salvador, Honduras, and Haiti, while countries where it is the biggest belief but less of 50% would Guatemala, Cuba, Uruguay, Belize and Canada. For the US, the Catholic population represents a quarter of the population of that country. "
"If the Non-Aligned Movement (1961), are 26 American nations that are part of this organization in favor of neutrality."
"In 1975 States was established in Africa, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries, through various agreements (the most recent Cotonou Agreement of 2000) fight poverty together with the European Union that works through the Fund European Development. They are part of this organization all states of the Commonwealth of Dominica and the Caribbean over Cuba Republic. the European Union is working through the signing of economic agreements with CARIFORUM except for Cuba. "
"On the economic side there are two major regional financial institutions. On the one hand the Inter-American Development Bank (1950) and moreover the Development Bank of the Caribbean (1969)."
"The Caribbean area is centralized by the Community of the Caribbean (1973) involving 15 Caribbean nations which aims to promote the creation of a single market and cooperation with other neighboring states. There is also an Association of States of the Caribbean (1994) to which belong to the 31 riparian states in order to promote economic integration, the natural preservation of the Caribbean and the development of its members. Finally there is the Organization of American States of the Eastern Caribbean (1981) by integrating several West Indian countries that share the Dollar Eastern Caribbean . in America the South mainly highlights Unasur (2011), which aims to achieve a similar integration to that achieved in Europe in America of the South, which includes all South American states. it also is Mercosur (1991) with the aim of creating a common tariff and a free trade area among its members. Brazil, Uruguay, Paraguay, Argentina and Venezuela (suspended in 2016) Also, there is the Communi dad Andina (1969) which includes cultural ties with Andean countries (Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia) and seeks to coordinate economic and social policies. "
"The city houses the main administrative, commercial, cultural, financial and government of the -a country except the National Congress, 8 Navy, the National Fisheries Service and the Ministry of Culture, Arts and Heritage, located in the city of Valparaiso and ECLAC headquarters. "
"Although it is generally seen as a unique city, Santiago is not a single administrative unit, but part of the territory of at the least 37 municipalities, of which 26 are completely within the urban area and 11 somewhere outside it. The most of the metropolis lies within the province of Santiago, with some communes in the provinces of Cordillera, Maipo and Talagante. "
"Also in 2012 it was ranked as the third most competitive city, also the third Latin American and 68th world-15 16 and in 2013 was ranked as the city smartest region.17 Finally, according to a Global survey released by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), Santiago would be the second best Latin American city to vivir.18 "
"Having been sent by Francisco Pizarro from the Governorate of New Castile and make a long journey from Cuzco, Extremadura conquistador Pedro de Valdivia arrived at the valley of the Mapocho on 13 December 1540. The followers of Valdivia encamped by the waters of the river in the foothills of the Tupahue hill and slowly began to establish relations with the picunches people who inhabited the area, after which Valdivia summoned to the caciques of the valley to a parliament in which he explained his intention to found a city on behalf of king Charles I of Spain, which would be the capital of his governorship of New Extremadura. These seeing the Spanish military superiority over the Incas, have accepted and even have recommended the foundation of the town on a small island located between two arms of the river next to a small hill called Huelén.21 "
"With the end of the war, assumed Bernardo O'Higgins as first dictator of the new Chilean state. During the call Patria Nueva, institutions closed are reopened and is inaugurated General Cemetery, the works of the canal San Carlos are completed and the south arm of the Mapocho, known as La Cañada, was closed the passage of waters turning it into a wooded promenade known as the Alameda de las Delicias. "
"Two new earthquakes hit the city, one on November 19, 1822 and another on 20 February 1835. These two facts, however, did not prevent him to follow city growing rapidly: in 1820, had 46 000 inhabitants, 25 in 1854 the population was 69,018 inhabitants in the 1865 census was 115,337 habitantes.27 This significant increase was mainly generated with the growth towards the suburbs of the south and west of the capital and partly to La Chimba, thanks to the division of the old existing properties in the area. This new peripheral development brought about the end of the traditional checkerboard structure that governed the city center. "
"However, the above contrasts with the anthropological evidence: the alignment of the Plaza de Armas, Cerro Santa Lucia and Cerro El Abanico, with the output of the sun during the summer solstice, and the Cerro San Cristobal which cuts profile of hills Lead-Littoria during the winter solstice, n 4 is a physical fact, concrete and indiscutible.22 "
"The enactment of both the Law of Independent Commune and decree of creation of municipalities would allow the creation of diverse administrative divisions in Department of Santiago, in order to improve local administration. Maipú, Ñuñoa, Renca, Lampa and Colina would create in 1891, Providencia and Barrancas in 1897. and in 1901, Las Condes in the department of La Victoria, Lo Cañas would arise in 1891, which would be divided into La Granja and Puente Alto in 1892. in 1899 he would be born Florida and in 1925, La Cisterna. "
"The hill San Cristobal began in this period a long process of improvement. In 1903 an astronomical observatory was installed and the following year the first stone of the Marian shrine stood on its summit, which is characterized by the image of 14 meters Virgin Mary, visible from various points of the ciudad.21 However, the idea of ​​reforestarlo would not be fulfilled until a few decades later. "
"With the desire to celebrate the centenary of the Republic in 1910, diverse urban works were realized. It was extended railway network, allowing connection of the city with its suburbs nascent, through the railway ring and carrying Cajon of the Maipo, while a new railway station was built in the north of the city. Mapocho station in the land reclaimed by channeling the Mapocho Forest Park was created and the new buildings of the Museum of Fine Arts was inaugurated El Internado national and the national Library. in addition, the work would be completed sewer, covering about 85% of the population urbana.20 "
"The feeling of an era of economic growth reflected in technological advances deeply contrasted with the lowest social classes. The growth of previous decades became an unprecedented population explosion since 1929. The Great Depression led to the collapse of the nitrate industry to the north, leaving 60,000 unemployed, which added to the decline in agricultural exports totaled about 300,000 unemployed nationwide. These mostly, they saw the big city and its thriving industry as a unique opportunity to survive. Many migrants arrived with nothing to the city and thousands had to survive on the streets before the impossibility to lease any room. the diseases expanded and tuberculosis claimed the lives of hundreds of homeless. unemployment and the cost of living increased importantly, while salaries fell santiaguinos. "
"To the east, stands solid called Sierra de Ramon, a mountain chain formed in the abutments of Precordillera due to the action of the fault Ramon, reaching 3296 meters at Cerro de Ramon. Twenty kilometers to the east, is find the Andes with its mountain ranges and volcanoes, many of which exceed 6000 meters and in which some glaciers are maintained. He is higher the Tupungato volcano with 6570 meters above sea level, 39 located near the Tupungatito, 5913 meters above sea level. to the northeast, are located the Nevado del Plomo, with 6070 meters, and Cerro El Plomo, with 5424 msnm.39 Meanwhile, to the southeast of the capital, are located the Nevado Los Piuquenes, 6019 m , San José volcano, 5856 meters above sea level, and the Maipo volcano 5323 meters above sea level. From these peaks, both Tupungatito as San Jose and Maipo are active volcanoes. "
"Temperatures vary throughout the year, from an average of 20 ° C during January to 8 ° C during June and July. In the summer, Santiago is hot, with temperatures easily reach 32 ° C during the afternoons with a record high of 38.3 ° C at 2019.44 while nights are generally pleasant and temperate down from 15 ° C to dawn. on the other hand, in the autumn and winter, the maximum temperature rate drops to 10 ° C and even 7 ° C and the lowest minimum is located some 2 ° C on average and even often below 0 ° C, especially during the early morning, a time low -7 , 0 ° C in 1976 (registered Pudahuel) .45 "
"When the Metropolitan Region of Santiago was created, not the figure of provincial governor was created for the province of Santiago, and in his left by the Intendant own place. In 2001, the post of" Delegate Provincial "was created, which It exercises the functions of a governor, representing the mayor, but has an almost ceremonial role, with less power than the provincial governors own country. "
"In 2006, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development of Chile (MINVU) conducted a study in which he defined as part of the" Santiago Metropolitano "in addition to those mentioned above, to the urban sectors of the commune of Peñaflor, the city Colina and the towns of Alto Jahuel, Buin and Viluco in the commune of Buin, Bajos de San Agustin in Calera de Tango, and Batuco, Lampa and Colina Station, in the commune of Lampa.57 "
"Product of its foundation by Spanish colonizers, Santiago was for many years a deeply catholic city. In fact, the name of the city was placed in honor of Saint James the Greater, one of the twelve apostles and the patron saint of Spain. At the same in other parts of the country, Catholicism ground remained strong until the beginning of the twentieth century, when the secularisation of the State diminished its power at the national level. Although still the main religion of the city, over the years has lost . because of the entry of various Protestant currents, and the growth of agnosticism and atheism the Archdiocese of Santiago de Chile, by Monsignor Ricardo Ezzati, exercises ecclesiastical jurisdiction Catholic in 33 of the 37 communes of the Great Santiago, the remaining are under the prelature of the diocese of San Bernardo. "
"Other religious denominations that have importance are Jehovah's Witnesses at 1,18%, Mormonism with 0.92% and 0.28% Judaism, although in communes like Vitacura and Las Condes exceeds 2%. Islam and the Orthodox Church have subpar records with 0.03% and 0.12% respectively and relate mainly to immigrants. 5.51% declared to belong to another religion, among which included the Baha'i Faith ' I, which has its world temple ninth and the first South American to Santiago.67 Finally, 10.85% of those over 15 years pleaded not belong to any religion peaking in the communes of middle class and upper middle , with 17.60% in Providencia.64 "
"The 79.81% of the regional gross domestic product comes from the tertiary sector highlighting a 26.16% of GDP arises only because of the financial and business services and 13,99% due to trade. The industry produces 19, 50% of GDP, the agricultural sector just 1.06% and 0.93% mining mainly due to the disputed Las Condes copper miner. as for the generation of the value added by sectors at national, in Santiago it generates a 45.22% of that produced by the industrial sector, 42.93% of the construction sector, 52.22% of the transport sector, 64.37% of the trade and 76.79% of the industry financiero.69 "
"Most museums are located in the historic center of the city, occupying the old buildings of colonial origin, as with the Museo Histórico Nacional, which is located in the Palace of the Royal Audiencia. La Casa Colorada houses the Museum Santiago, while the Colonial Museum is installed in a wing of the church of San Francisco and the Museum of Pre-Columbian Art occupies part of the former Palacio de la Aduana. the Museum of Fine Arts, although it is located in the city center, it was built at the beginning of the twentieth century especially to accommodate said museum and the back of the building was established in 1947 the Museum of Contemporary Art, under the Faculty of Arts of the University of Chile. "
"The nascent republic would create in 1842, under the auspices of the Chilean-Venezuelan Andres Bello, the University of Chile, an organization that would play an important and unique role in higher education for over fifty years. In 1848 it also created the School of Arts and Crafts, as an institution dedicated to technical education. the school subsequently settle the core of the technical University of the State (in 1947) and the University of Santiago de Chile (in 1981). at the end of the nineteenth century and at the attitude laicista adopted by the state university, the Archbishopric of Santiago created in 1888 at the Catholic University, which would dispute with the University of Chile the formation of new estudiantes.84 the santiaguino centralism in higher education would not be surpassed until 1919, when it was created University of Conception in the homonymous city, to meet students from the south of the country. "
"Soccer"
"The Chilean railway system had great splendor during the first half of the twentieth century, with the main axis Central Station Santiago. However, it is currently focused mainly on freight to the ports of San Antonio and Valparaiso. For service passenger commuter service there Metrotren us, which covers the districts of the south-central Santiago to San Bernardo sector, intercity service Metrotren Rancagua, that targets the capital of the O'Higgins Region. also, long service distance as the TerraSur Chillán linking cities such as San Fernando, Curicó, Talca, among others. in summer season the TerraSur Temuco service covering the towns of Laja, Renaico, Victoria and the capital of the Araucanía Region adds. city of Temuco. "
"As for the rates of reported crimes of greater social connotation, the communes of Santiago have the highest numbers nationally. The regional average of 800 complaints per hundred thousand inhabitants (the largest in the country) and 11 communes of the Great Santiago they are within 20 with higher numbers. Santiago Center leads the list with a rate of 3646.7 denunciations, followed by Providence with 2271.1. on the other hand, five communes of the metropolitan area are within twenty they have fewer complaints: the lower the rate of Cerro Navia that reaches the 341 complaints per hundred thousand inhabitants, followed by Maipú with 352,4.103 Finally, as to the actual number of crimes, 220,255 people were apprehended in 2004 (of which over 83% were men) mainly property crimes such as theft and hurto.104 "
"America was populated from East Asia and evolved over thousands of years without contact with other continents, establishing diverse cultures throughout its territory and generating their own neolithic revolutions. From the arrival of the Spaniards in 1492, continent established a significant ecological and social exchange with Eurasia and Africa. "
"To refer to the islands and all the landmass of the Western Hemisphere, the geographer Flemish Gerardus Mercator used the same word America for the first time in its cartographic work with a map of the world published in the year 1538. On the other hand, Spanish monarchy legally called his American possessions as Castilian Kingdoms of Indians. the Crown called them British West Indies. "
"Other theories that no longer provide documentation, more late and are also less widespread, say the name America comes from a merchant, Richard Amerike, 10 which would have funded the trip of Juan Caboto, 11 to Newfoundland in 1497 or a region called Amerrique, located in present Nicaragua 12 which had large gold resources which have discovered both Columbus and Vespucci, and that even this would have changed his last name in honor of that area. "
"In modern times they have claimed ancient Indian names as names native continent, including Abya Yala stands, used by the Kuna13 and Cem Anahuac ethnicity by aztecas.14"
"Until the last you decades dominated the theory of the delayed poblamiento holding that human beings came to America from Siberia about 12-14 thousand years ago by entering through the Bridge of Beringia during wurmienses glaciation. However, more recently scientists from different areas They have questioned more and more evidence the above theory shaping a new theory of the early poblamiento holding not only a much earlier settlement (probably between 20 000 and 50 000 years BC.), but the use of other alternative routes to Beringia to enter from Siberia, Mongolia17 and even other places of origin. "
"The diseases introduced by Europeans, such as smallpox, caused the mass mortality of indigenous populations and a demographic collapse that some researchers exceeded 90% of the population total.22"
"The twentieth century saw increased the difference in the development of America with respect to the rest of the continent. Thus, while the United States became a world superpower since the mid-century, Latin America and the Caribbean was formed as the region with greater social inequality in the world, including countries such as Haiti or Bolivia, which record development rates are among the lowest in the world. "
"Since the end of the nineteenth century American countries sought to form a system of Pan-American unity resulting in the creation of the Organization of American States (OAS) in 1948. Moreover, since the end of the twentieth century American countries have intensified efforts to integrate subregionally in various bodies such as UNASUR, Mercosur (Common Market of the South), the Andean Community of Nations (CAN), the Central American Integration System (SICA), the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America - Treaty of Commerce of the People (ALBA), Caricom (Caribbean Community) and the Free Trade Agreement of North America (NAFTA). "
"America is the second landmass largest planet after Eurasia. It has an area of ​​approximately 42,978,000 square kilometers. It extends from north to south from Cape Columbia (87 ° N, Canada) in the Arctic Ocean to Diego Ramirez islands (57 ° S, Chile), located in the Drake passage separates the American continent of Antarctica. Its easternmost point corresponds to Cape Branco in Brazil (34 ° W) while the westernmost corresponds to Comendador bering islands in the Aleutians (178 ° E), next to the Bering Strait that separates Alaska from Asia. "
"Consists of three sub-continents. America North, Central America and America of the South and an island arc known as the West Indies According to the theories of continental drift and plate tectonics, which would be America North and Latin of the south have remained for millions of separate years. After the division of Gondwana and Laurasia both sub-continents have traveled to their current positions being joined Central America, a land bridge emerged between them by action of plate tectonics, which was first an island arc and later became land continues. the thinnest point of this union constitutes the isthmus of Panama formed three million years ago. Another insular arc, West Indies, constitute a second connection between the sub-continents. "
"The Guarani Aquifer is the groundwater reservoir larger surface around the planet, located in large territorial portions of Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay."
"The temperate climate extends at mid-latitudes and mountain rises, mainly on the Atlantic side. The temperate climate with rainfall throughout the year runs in the coastal areas of Canada, Alaska and southern Chile, producing forest areas mixed, while tempered with rains in summer is the most widespread climate on the continent, mainly in the southeastern portion of the United States, Central Mexico and southeastern Brazil. the Mediterranean climate is found in California and the Central Valley of Chile, generating a style known as chaparral vegetation. "
"Anglo-Saxon America, located to the north, consists of two large countries. The United States and Canada They mainly speak English and are mostly professing Protestant religions, with the exception of some regions francophone and Catholic religion in Canada . Both have high percentage of urban population. on the economic side are countries with large domestic product values ​​total gross and per capita, an economy early industrialized and very high human development (within the highest in the world 10). in this area may include Greenland, related to Denmark, also Germanic language that shares some of the features mentioned. "
"Population characteristics"
"While it is true, to a greater or lesser extent all countries of the continent have European ancestry, but this is the majority in countries like Uruguay, Argentina, Costa Rica, United States, Canada, Chile and Brazil. In some of these countries, whose inhabitants have European features phenotypically predominant, has been found to have genetic testing on small percentages of American Indian blood and africana.47 48 49 racial problems in America have been declining throughout history, especially in legal form, since slavery was completely abolished in all countries. However, there is racism towards minorities Amerindian, African or Asian populations in several countries predominantly white. "
"Quechua is the indigenous language most spoken, with more than twelve million people. It is also the most 'international' of indigenous languages ​​American, as spoken in half a dozen countries. It is official in Bolivia and Peru, areas where this language is spoken predomina.51 also a sizeable minority in Ecuador, southern Colombia, throughout northern Argentina and northern Chile.52 53 "
"Several native languages ​​are spoken in the area of ​​Mesoamerica, such as Nahuatl (spoken by 1.5 million people in Mexico), the K'iche '(spoken by 1.8 million people in Guatemala and Mexico) Mayan languages ​​(in set spoken by five million people in Mexico and Central America) Zapotec (spoken in Oaxaca by about 800 thousand people, mostly from the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, including many European and Arab origin), the Mixtec (spoken in Oaxaca and Guerrero for more than 500 thousand people) and Purepecha (which is spoken in Michoacan and is isolated from the language most widely spoken in Mexico, besides being the language of the ancient empire Tarasco), among others. "
"The Wayuu or guajiro is an indigenous language spoken by more than 400 thousand people in Colombia and Venezuela."
"Papiamento is a creole language spoken on the islands of Aruba, Bonaire and Curacao."
"Welsh is spoken in the Patagonian province of Chubut Argentina."
"Esperanto auxiliary language is spoken by about 300 thousand people in countries across the continent, with notable concentrations in Brazil, Argentina, Peru, Chile, Costa Rica, Mexico, Uruguay, Paraguay, Venezuela, Colombia, United States, Canada and Cuba . required [citation "
"The second largest Christian group is Protestantism, and is the majority religion in the United States, Jamaica and Guyana. In the US states of southwestern belong to the Baptist Church, while New England to the Anglican Church, the states of Dakota of the North and Dakota of the South Methodist Church and northwest is the presence of Pentecostal Churches Neo. Canada was in previous decades a Protestant country for the first half of the twentieth century, although Catholicism again booming grab in the 1960s, returning to be a Catholic country as it was in the nineteenth century. However, Protestantism in the country accounts for nearly 30%. in the case of Latin America, the Protestant population is minority, although it is growing and gaining strength in those countries. by example, Guatemala has 40% of Protestants, followed by Honduras with 35%, 33.2% Belize, El Salvador 30% -countries more than 30% of Protestants while countries would exceed 20% Nicaragua 26.5%, 24% Puerto Rico, Haiti 23%, Brazil 22.2% and Colombia 21%, otherwise the least Protestant countries are Argentina with 9%, Paraguay 8%, Mexico 7.4%, Ecuador 6% and Cuba by 5%. "
"In countries like Brazil, Haiti, Colombia, Cuba and Panama it is usually mixed rituals of voodoo and Santeria with Catholicism, as well as in Mexico, Ecuador, Guatemala, Peru and Bolivia indigenous rituals together are mixed with Catholicism, denominating each religious syncretism. it is worth mentioning that secularization has made progress in society, particularly in the most developed in the region or high democratic countries. the countries where the population is declared atheist or agnostic is elevated more than 40% 45% are Cuba and Uruguay 40.5% in Canada around 30.7% declared no religion, while in Chile are almost a quarter of the country. Another country where there is a significant increase in number of atheists or not believers is the United States with 18% closely followed by Argentina where a national survey (CONICET) says that 15% have no religion being the second largest group after the Catholics. in contrast, countries where most of his població n (above 95%) are religious are Paraguay 98%, 97% Puerto Rico, Haiti, 96%, 96% Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru 95.5% 94.9%. Due to immigration from the Middle East and East Asia, there are minorities of practitioners of Islam, Judaism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Baha'i Faith, among other religions. "
"American States are integrated into the UN, being almost all American states (except some states of the Caribbean) founding members of the organization. In the economic sphere the American states are members of the International Monetary Fund, except Cuba, and World Trade organization, although Bahamas has observer status country. Ecuador (1973-1992, readmitted in 2007) and Venezuela (1960) are part of the organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC "
"In the area of ​​justice and security all American countries are integrated into the INTERPOL. In the case of international justice three countries (United States, Nicaragua and Cuba) have not signed or ratified the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. While Three (Dominican Republic, Bahamas and Jamaica) signatories that have not yet ratified it. in other countries accept the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court to try cases of crimes against humanity. "
"Stresses the CELAC (2010) that promotes the integration and development of Latin America and the Caribbean, with international partner in its relations with the European Union in the Summit CELAC-EU. Also the continent has the Latin American Association integration (South America plus Mexico and Cuba) founded in 1980 with the aim of creating a common market. economic System Latin American and the Caribbean (1975) to coordinate a common economic policy towards other international organizations. in 1964 the Latin American Parliament was created to represent all democratic political trends of the continent, is composed of all states except the Caribbean states (except Cuba and the Dominican Republic if part), United States, Canada and Guyana. "
"Finally we can talk about organizations that share cultural affinities as the Organization of American States (1949) which includes the Latin American countries plus Spain and Portugal. The relationship of this 'Community Iberoamericana of Nations' is defined by the Ibero-American Summits held annually since 2014 are biennials, since 1991. Or sustainable development as the Organization of the Amazon Cooperation Treaty (1995 "
"On September 18, 1810, the First National Board of Government was proclaimed in Santiago, fact with which it was begun the process of independence of Chile. The city, which would become the capital of the new nation, would be shaken by various events, especially because of the military actions that would take place nearby. "
"Although Santiago was about to disappear by the Indian attack, an earthquake and a series of floods, the city began to fill quickly. Of the 126 blocks designed by Gamboa, in 1558 already had been occupied forty and in 1580 , all 25 while the nearby lands hosted tens of thousands of cattle. in the architectural field, begin to build the first buildings of importance of the city, highlighting the start of construction of the first stone cathedral in 1561 and the church of San Francisco in 1572, both of constructions mainly adobe and stone. "
"A series of disasters would put in check the development of the city during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries: an earthquake in 1575 smallpox epidemic in 1590, overflowings of the Mapocho in 1608 and 1618 and finally, the earthquake on May 13, 1647 where more than 600 people were killed and more than five thousand damnificados.25 These facts would not stop the growth of the capital of the Captaincy General of Chile, at a time when all the power of the country is concentrated around the Plaza de Armas santiaguina. "
"In 1767, the Spanish Corregidor Luis Manuel de Zañartu, initiated a major architectural works of the colonial period: the Bridge of Calicanto, which allowed unite effectively to the city with La Chimba, to the north of the river, and the beginning of construction of embankments to avoid the excesses of the Mapocho. Although the bridge managed to be constructed, the stems were constantly destroyed by the river. in 1780, the Augustine governor of Jáuregui hired Italian architect Joaquín Toesca, who would design, among other important works the facade of the cathedral, the Palacio de La Moneda, the design of the channel San Carlos and the definitive construction of embankments, during the government of Ambrosio O'Higgins, being these inaugurated definitively in 1798.26 the government of the viceroy of Peru, created opening the way to Valparaiso in 1791, which would allow connecting the capital with the main port of the country. "
"With the advent of the new century, the city began to experience various related to the strong development of the industry. Valparaiso, which to date had been the economic center of the country, slowly begins to lose protagonism in decline of the capital changes. Ya in 1895, 75% of the national manufacturing industry was in the capital and only 28% in the port, and by 1910, major banks and commercial stores settled in the streets of the downtown, leaving Valparaiso. "
"In late 1920, the census estimated a population of 507,296 inhabitants Santiago, equivalent to 13.6% of the total population of the country. This figure represented an increase of 52.47% compared to the 1907 census , ie an annual growth of 3.3%, almost three times the figure nationally. This growth is mainly explained by the arrival of peasants from the south who came to work in the factories and railways under construction. No But this growth was experienced in the periphery and not in the town itself. "
"In these years, the city began to face a series of problems generated by the disorderly experienced growth. Air pollution reached critical levels during the winter months and a layer of smog was installed over the city, so the authorities should establish legislative measures for industries and vehicular restriction on cars. to this is added the vast expanse of the city brought down the transport system. the Metro should be extended considerably extending its lines and creating three new lines between 1997 and 2006 the southeast sector, while a new extension to Maipú was inaugurated in 2011, leaving the metropolitan railway with a length of 105 km. the new line 6 was opened in November 2017, joining Cerrillos with the commune of Providencia. in the for buses, the system underwent a major reform in the early 1990s and then in 2007 with Additional property nto a transport master plan known as Transantiago, which has faced a number of problems since its start marcha.32 "
"In the coming years the development of several new projects in many areas, especially in transportation is expected. It is expected remodeling International Airport by 2021 and an expansion of rail services, including various projects currently under evaluation as a network of trams Las Condes, commuter trains to Lampa and Padre Hurtado (Melitrén) and a high-speed train that connects the capital with Valparaiso and Viña of the Mar.34 35 36 Two new urban highways Vespucio East and Central Costanera, you are in the process of licitación.34 Metro de Santiago will continue its expansion with the opening of five lines between 2017 and 2026, doubling its length of 115 km to over 210 km. "
"At present, Santiago mainly lies in the plain of the basin, with an altitude between 400 meters in the western areas and reaching 540 in Plaza Baquedano, 38 presenting some hillocks in the area of ​​Cerrillos. The area metropolitan has surrounded some of these hills islands, as in the case of the Cerro Santa Lucia, Cerro Blanco, Calan, Cerro Lo Aguirre and Renca, which with 800 meters is the highest point of the city. a southwestern Santiago there is a rocky cord of several hills islands, within which highlights the Chena hill. to the west some of the main heights of the Cordillera de la Costa, such as Cerro Roble Alto with 2185 meters, are also presented being the area of the Maipo river alone in the mountain range loses altitude. "
"However, the most important river for the city is Mapocho River, on whose banks the city was forged in the colonial era. The Mapocho is the main tributary of the Maipo, joining with it in the area of ​​El Monte, to the southwest of conurbation, after its long travel from birth. the river arises by the confluence of several streams of nororiente Andes region Metropolitan and subsequently lower region to the flat through passes of the foothills and penetrates directly into the eastern part of the city. the Mapocho crosses east-west about twenty metropolitan communes before leaving by the zone Pudahuel soon to cross agricultural areas to reach El Monte. the regime of the river is mixed, varying between nival in in the lowest and highest parts pluvio-snowy, during its flow rate may vary between 13.6 m³ / s during November and 2.3 m³ / s of abril.40 "
"Since its founding, Santiago has been the main city of Chile. During the colonial era, the governor of the Reyno de Chile maintained his residence in front of the Plaza de Armas, notwithstanding that Concepcion was the center of military actions in early War of Arauco, through the governor long seasons in the city. the second Royal Court had its headquarters in the city from 1609 to 1811, being reopened during the Reconquista (1814-1818). "
"Currently, most of the inhabitants are located in peripheral sectors, having the communes of Puente Alto and Maipú (the two largest in the country) more than 500,000 inhabitants each, while Florida and San Bernardo about 300,000 people communes each.3 as Quilicura, in the extreme northwest, achieved growth rates exceeding 20% ​​in the decade of the 1990s and 2000s, while some central communes like Pedro Aguirre Cerda, Independencia and San Joaquin reached negative figures in that período.64 "
"In Santiago the main economic institutions of the country are located, including the Santiago Stock Exchange (whose main stock index is IPSA), and the vast majority of the parent companies of national and transnational corporations. With the signing of the free trade agreements signed since 2000 with the United States, European Union, China, Japan and Korea in the South, among others, various international multinationals have used Santiago as a platform for entry into the Latin American market. According to the magazine AméricaEconomía, Santiago is one of the best cities to do business in Latin America, being several times between the first posiciones70 and even in 2007 tied for first place with Miami.71 as for trade, this has been enhanced by the creation of several shopping centers in various areas of the capital and the rise of supermarkets, although at the expense of local stores and traditional commercial districts like Patronage or Franklin. "
"During the nineteenth century and the advent of independence, new architectural works began to establish itself in the capital of the young republic. The aristocracy built small palaces for residential use, mainly around the Republic neighborhood and preserved until today. to this other structures adopted artistic trends from Europe, such as the Club Hipico de Santiago, the central houses of University of Chile and the Catholic University, the Central Station and the Mapocho Station, Central Market, they add the National library, the Museum of Fine Arts and the Paris-London, among others. "
"For children and youth there are several entertainment centers as the amusement park Fantasilandia, the National Zoo located in the Cerro San Cristobal or Buin Zoo on the outskirts of the city. The Barrio Bellavista, Brazil, Manuel Montt, Plaza Ñuñoa and Sweden concentrate much of nightclubs, restaurants and bars in the city, the main centers of night entertainment in the capital. in order to promote economic development in other regions, the law prohibits the construction of a casino game within the Metropolitan, 80 region but nearby are the casinos Enjoy Santiago and Monticello Grand Casino, both located just over the northern regional boundary and south, respectively, in addition to the traditional casino coastal city of Viña of the Sea, 120 kilometers from Santiago. "
"Santiago is home to a lot of museums of different types, among which are the three category" national "administered by the National Service for the Cultural Heritage: the Historical Museum Nacional, the National Museum of Fine Arts and the National Museum Natural History."
"The Parque Quinta Normal also has several museums, within which are the aforementioned Natural History, the Artequin Museum, the Museum of Science and Technology and the Railway Museum. In other parts of the city there are some museums, such as the Cerrillos Air Museum, the Museum of Tajamares in Providencia and the Interactive Mirador Museum at La Granja. the latter opened in 2000 and designed mainly for children and youth, has been visited by more than 2.8 million attendees, the making it the busiest museum throughout the país.81 "
"As public libraries, the most important is the National Library located in the heart of Santiago. Its origins date back to 1813, when it was created by the nascent Republic and was moved to its current premises a century later, also home to the headquarters of the National Archives. in order to provide more closeness to the population, incorporate new technologies and complement the services provided by public libraries and the National Library, opened in 2005, the Library of Santiago in the Barrio Yungay. "
"The Chilean higher education has historically been subject to a high concentration in the Chilean capital. Since colonial times, it is in this city of the General Captaincy where the first centers were set up university study. In 1622 he started working in the convent Dominican University of Santo Tomas, and the following year Jesuits inaugurated the Convictorio San Francisco Javier, also known as Convictorio Carolino. the latter would work until the expulsion and suppression of the Society. the religious matrix of both institutions was exceeded to the created by Royal decree of Felipe V of 1647 the Royal University of San Felipe, which absorbed the dominica institution. This corporation worked regularly until the advent of the Independence of Chile, when the National Institute was created in order to modify the schemes of higher education .84 "
"Another sports"
"Major sporting events"
"As for highways, the city is crossed by Route 5 Panamerican Highway, a stretch of the Pan-American Highway. The route allows connection of Santiago with the cities of the north of the country through the highway concession of Aconcagua, and south . through Highway Maipo highway Pacific (68-CH) it is one of the most used, allowing the connection of the city and the Greater Valparaiso Highway of the Sun (78-CH), meanwhile, connects Santiago with San Antonio and other cities in the Litoral Central, while the Autopista Los Libertadores (57-CH) makes with the cities of San Felipe, Los Andes and El Paso International Los Libertadores. "
"During the 2000s, and in order to improve vehicular transport in Santiago, were various built highways urban throughout the capital. General Velasquez and the sections of the Panamerican highway running through the city were turned into the Autopista Central, whereas Américo Vespucio gave way to the highway Vespucio Norte Express, South Vespucio and future Vespucio East. Following the edge of the Mapocho river, it was built Costanera Norte communicating in a more expeditious sector northeast of the capital with the airport and the downtown area . All these highways under concession, totaling 210 km in length, have a free flow toll system. "
"As for public transportation, since the early 1990s there have been various government efforts to solve the chaotic system existing in the city. In 1994 were tendered for the first time the paths of the yellow buses (microbuses identified with that color). However, the severe maintained system problems so it was devised a new transportation system called Transantiago. This project went into effect on February 10, 2007, combining core services that cross the city with feeders tours local, which have a unified payment system through the bip !. Transantiago card, however, has had a series of errors of design and implementation that have not yet been resolved and have jeopardized their success. "
"In the Great Santiago are available practically all the services of existing communications, from public phones to wireless broadband networks. The fixed, whose phone prefix is ​​2, is covered for almost all of the homes of Santiago through companies Movistar Chile, VTR, Claro Chile, GTD Manquehue, CMET and Entel Chile, while mobile (by Movistar Chile, Entel, VTR Mobile, WOM, Claro Chile, Virgin Mobile, Gtd Mobile and Colo-Colo Mobile) he has had tremendous growth during 2000 reaching great market penetration. Similarly, Internet services have expanded significantly during the same decade. "
"There's a needle in haystack esta, You have to search for it"
"Because of its large size and its geographic characteristics, in some cultures, America is traditionally divided into America of the North, Central America and America of the Sur.4 Some geographers consider Central America as a subregion within Latin of the North. Considering their cultural characteristics, are distinguished Anglo-Saxon America and Latin America. "
"The first time the name" America "was used in Europe to designate lands reached by Columbus was in a treatise entitled Cosmographiae Introductio, written by Mathias Ringmann and others to accompany the mural planisferio Waldseemüller Map, drawn by German cartographer Martin Waldseemuller, which also for the first time, America appeared surrounded by water and perfectly differentiated from Asia, with Castilian flags and legends indicating that those lands had been discovered per mandatum regis Castelle. "
"Viking Village L'Anse aux Meadows (Newfoundland, Canada), discovered in 1960 and declared a World Heritage Site by Unesco."
"It is also noted that the European conquest was rejected in various parts of the continent. Several indigenous people successfully resisted the European invasions on vast territories, and had dominion over them until the end of the nineteenth century. La Araucania Patagonia, the Pampas the Mato Grosso, the Amazon region and the great plains of the American west, remained under the dominion of nations like Mapuche, Uros, Het, Ranquel, Wichí, Qom, Amazonian, Algonquins, Hopi, Comanche, Inuit, etc. "
"In 1822, Brazil was organized as an independent monarchy, the Empire of Brazil, to the dissolution of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and Algarve, until 1889 when the monarchy was abolished to establish a republic. For its part, the United States and Britain negotiated in 1867 a process of independence with restrictions for Canada, which was consolidated during the twentieth century. "
"In the American territory, the plates of Earth's crust (American, the Caribbean and South American) in its displacement from the center of the Atlantic westward form the mountain range of the western edge of America product of the subducting plate the Pacific. It is basically composed of a series of high mountain ranges on the west coast (mainly the Rocky Mountains, the Sierra Madre Occidental and the Andes, all part of the Ring of fire) resulting from the collision of continental plates with the oceanic and plains in . eastern areas where the two largest river basins in the world are located: the Mississippi river in North America and that of the Amazon river in South America "
"The coast, although much of it is regularly presents sections dismembered mainly at its ends giving rise to the islands of the Canadian Arctic and Greenland in the north, and Chile and Tierra of the Fire in the southern region. Other important groups of islands correspond to the Aleutian islands in the far northwest, the West Indies in the Caribbean sea, the Galapagos islands in the Pacific Ocean and the Falkland islands in the South Atlantic. "
"Most American rivers run to the mountain ranges of the West and are distributed on the slopes of the oceans Glacial Arctic Ocean Atlantic and Pacific. On the side of the Atlantic flow longest rivers forming major basins that favor in all ways the inhabitants of those areas. "
"North America"
"In the Caribbean Sea where is located the island of the Spanish (Dominican Republic and Haiti), Cuba, the Bahamas, Dominica, Granada, Trinidad and Tobago, Puerto Rico, Jamaica, St. Martin and other islands. As for the flora of the Caribbean are species of trees and plants that spend more than 13 000 different species, of which 6500 are endemic to the area, the best known are Olea europaea, the cainito Chrysophyllum, lignum vitae, ceiba, mahogany (National Tree of the Dominican Republic). Originally Cuba was filled with thick vegetation, which has been degraded to develop agriculture. However, there are many programs for the care and maintenance of these forests, which are home to great diversity. the precious woods of Cuba are highly prized. "
"In the area of ​​South America, the Andes and the coast, they are located the Sierra de Perija and the massif of Guayana within the basin of the Orinoco River, the Amazon and Gran Chaco. This area of ​​the continent is very rich floras, It has a dry, tropical, temperate, arid and humid forests. the species most known in South America are the larch, mountain cypress, cypress guaitecas, the huililahuán, the lleuque, Saxegothaea, and araucaria, Nothofagus, including coigüe, the lenga and ñire, spruce, cypress, pine, ceiba, yagrumo, the guamo, the mahogany, lianas, species of bromeliads and other epiphytes. finally there are more than 44 000 different plant species . "
"We also exist in the Andean regions of the subcontinental north (Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela) wilderness areas that harbor unique native plant species in the world (such as frailejón, also known as espeletia-), bromeliads, cryptograms, shrubs like the sietecueros, ferns and others who favor the formation of bodies of water such as lakes and ponds, which serve rich water sources and watersheds and rivers feed as important as that of the Orinoco and Amazonas.32 "
"Because of the considerable length from north to south, east to west, America has almost all climates exist. Among the coasts of Mexico, western Nicaragua and southern Brazil, the warm weather develops in the plains coastal and mountain slopes. the rainy intertropical climate and the jungle are characteristic of much of Central America, the Amazon basin and the islands of the Caribbean, while on the Atlantic coast of Colombia, Venezuela and Guyana an area of ​​savanna develops. "
"Creole is a Creole language based mainly on the French, which is spoken in Haiti. In the United States, Dominican Republic, Bahamas and Turks and Caicos a considerable number of Haitian immigrants who speak it."
"Some other languages ​​have an important demographic weight without being official, including: [citation"
"Chinese is spoken mainly in Peru, United States, Canada, Panama and Venezuela (which are the countries with the highest number of immigrants) and, to a lesser extent in other countries of the continent, such as Colombia, Chile, Mexico and Argentina."
"As transcontinental organizations between America and Europe are the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (1975) to promote democracy, human rights, arms control and security. Also the military organization NATO (1949), both cases American member countries are Canada and the United States. There are other organizations transcontinental such as the OECD in 1961 (American, European and Asian) to countries like the United States and Canada (1961) joined, Mexico (1994) recently Chile (2010) and the Forum for Economic Cooperation Asia-Pacific (1989), which brings together the United States, Canada, Mexico, Peru and Chile in America. Also in this transcontinental field highlights the Plan Colombo (1950) to promote development economic and social of 27 countries (the United States). "
"Regionally American states are grouped in the Organization of American States (1948) with the goal of being a political forum for decision-making, multilateral dialogue and the integration of America. Cuba was expelled from the organization in 1962 after the triumph of the Cuban Revolution in 2009 she was readmitted. "
"There are also two organizations that oppose both the guiding economic principles as we can speak of political principles. On the one hand Alliance Pacific (2011) formed by Mexico, Chile, Peru and Colombia seeking the enforcement of the State of . law, democracy, constitutional order and the free market in contrast is the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America - Treaty of Commerce of the People (ALBA-TCP) which is an international organization founded in 2004 and consists of Latin America and the Caribbean which emphasizes the fight against poverty and social exclusion based on doctrines left. they are part of this organization Venezuela, Cuba, Nicaragua, Bolivia, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Ecuador, Granada, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Suriname and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. "
"Santiago, also called Santiago de Chile6 or Greater Santiago, 7 is the capital of Chile and the Metropolitan Region of Santiago.7 is the main urban center of the country and its metropolitan area."
"On February 12, 1541, Pedro de Valdivia formally founded the city of 'Santiago El Nuevo Extremo', the official name of the city in honor of the Apostle Santiago, patron saint of Spain, near the Huelén hill, renamed" Saint Lucia . "by the conquistador Following the colonial rules, Valdivia entrusted the layout of the new city to the master builder Pedro de Gamboa, who designed the city grid layout: in the center of the city designed a Plaza Mayor, around which were selected several lots for Cathedral, the jail and the house of the governor, in total, eight blocks north were built south and ten from east to west, and each solar (quarter block) was handed over to the settlers, who built houses mud and straw. "
"Months later, Valdivia left with his soldiers to the south, to continue the War of Arauco. Santiago was unprotected, which was used by indigenous forces of Michimalonco who attacked the fledgling city. On 11 September 1541, the city ​​was attacked, but the 55 Spaniards of the garrison managed to defeat the attackers. in the opinion, the resistance was led by Inés de Suárez, pair of Valdivia. Santiago was rebuilt slowly, giving prominence to the newly founded Concepción, where in 1556 he founded the Real Audiencia of Chile. However, the constant danger that confronted Conception, partly due to its proximity to the war and on the other to a succession of earthquakes devastating, did not allow the final establishment of the Royal Court in Santiago until 1607 , reaffirming its role as capital. "
"The situation would only change several years later with a new industrial boom fostered by CORFO and the expansion of the state apparatus from late 1930. At this time, the aristocracy lost much of the power they held and the middle class composed by retailers, bureaucrats and professionals, he took on the role of national policy. in this context, Santiago begins to be developed towards the masses, while the upper classes tend to take refuge in the districts of the capital. Thus, the old rides moneyed class, as Cousino and Alameda Park, lose hegemony against popular entertainment venues such as the National Stadium emerged in 1938. "
"On 27 February 2010, a strong earthquake was felt in the capital, causing various damage to old buildings, but some modern buildings uninhabitable were generating a broad debate on the actual application of the mandatory earthquake standards in architecture modern Santiago.33 "
"The city of Santiago is located mainly in a plain known as" Santiago basin. "This basin is part of the Intermediate Depression and is defined clearly by the cord of Chacabuco by the north, the Andes Mountains in the east, the narrowness of Paine in the south and the Cordillera de la Costa. Approximately, has a length of 80 km in north-south direction and 35 km from east to west. "
"Hundreds of millions of years, the present territory of the city was covered by ocean and marine sediment, the only mass nearby ground the existing Cordillera Costera. The morphology of the region begin to take its present appearance since the end of the Paleozoic when the subduction of the Nazca plate beneath the South American Plate, pertaining then to the continent of Gondwana begins. This subduction would generate the folding of the earth's crust from the Triassic, raising the rocks that would give rise to the Andes. Subsequently, new tectonic activities would generate the collapse of the huge rock mass forming the Depression lifted Intermedia.37 "
"The regional morphology would continue changing. The periods glaciers would cover the region with ice forming moraines. The strong volcanism present at that time, generate a series of volcanic eruptions throwing large flows pyroclastic and causing the melting of glaciers. This would generate the deposit more sediments in the valley, later supplemented by the fluvial drag. settling of the valley would continue for thousands of years and even the last major events corresponding to violent volcanic eruptions, would go back at least 5000 years ago. These sediments would allow the existence of a fertile basin and would cover the previous relief to the Andean formation, exposing only the tops of some hills, known as "hills islands'."
"In order to be closer to the water for agricultural development of the basin were built during the nineteenth century various irrigation canals that connected the Mapocho with the Maipo, as is the case of Channel San Carlos and Channel Las Perdices . Other channels were built to channel rainwater from the mountains, such as the Aguada ditch. "
"The climate of the city of Santiago corresponds to a temperate climate with winter rains and prolonged dry season, 41 better known as continental Mediterranean climate. The main climatic characteristics of Santiago concentration of about 80% of the rainfall is over the months of the austral winter (June to August), and the end of the fall and early spring, with between 50 and 100 mm. with an annual total of 342 mm. This rainfall is rain, because the snow level round 1800 m usually in winter and rarely low of 1,000 meters, 42 so the city is only occasionally affected by snowfall. in the period between 2000 and 2017 there have been nine snowfall and only two have been measured in the central sector (2007 and 2017). the recurrence or frequency of snowfall affecting the center of Santiago between one and four years, but with high variability. the amount of snow recorded in Santiago on 15 th lio 2017 ranged from 3 cm to 10 cm Fifth Normal and in Regina (Tobalaba). Shows that nine out of ten events recorded snow in Santiago have occurred under cold conditions of La Niña or neutras.43 "
"The city of Santiago is located in an ecological area esclerófilo type known as Chilean scrub, which has been heavily modified due to the use of land for agriculture or urban expansion purposes. This has resulted in rapid degradation of soils and erosion of these, 51 which has generated a process of desertification, aggravated by the use of groundwater for human consumption, forest fires and drying swamp between otros.52 However, there are still some redoubts of great importance for biodiversity such as gorge de la Plata or broken Ramon, 53 which protected wildlife areas located in the interior areas of the Andes add up. "
"Within the city, while the number of green areas reached by 1992 an area of ​​2686 public ha and 2625 private, equivalent to 2.5% of the consolidated urban area. Considering these figures, the average per santiaguino was 5 7 m² of green area, below the 9 m² recommended by WHO However, this figure is much lower today. as the city grows about 1,000 hectares to the year, only 8 hectares of green areas are created . to this must be added the fact that the number of hectares of green spaces, half corresponds to hills islands that own little vegetation or lack of it. So, discounting these areas the figures would come to 1.5 square meters of green areas . per capita figures also show large variation depending on the area of ​​the city, while in the eastern sector is reached at 20 sqm per capita, in the southern sector barely manage to exceed 1 m².52 "
"This pollution has various toxic chemicals such as SO2, CO, O3 and NO2, added to the various types of particulate material in suspension (produced by 49% mobile source and 29% by fixed sources). The levels of accumulation of these substances are measured by seven stations quality monitoring the air installed between 1988 and 1977 across the ciudad.54 measurements of these stations added to the meteorological analysis allow authorities enact extraordinary measures to reduce pollution , which are called "environmental alert", "environmental pre-emergency 'and' environmental emergency 'in recent years, environmental pollution levels have dropped considerably. in 1989, the average level of respirable particulate matter was 103.3 mg / m³, while in 2004 the figure reached 60.9 mg / m³, which is still well above the standard of 50 mg / m³ set by the government. in the case of the material couple ticulado thinner (2.5 MP) figures show a reduction from 68.8 to 29.3 mg / m³ in the same period, while the situations of environmental alert dropped from 38 in 1997 to 9 in 2004, pre-emergencies from 37 to 4 and emergencies 4 to ninguna.54 "
"Unlike other large cities and metropolitan areas of the world, Santiago lacks a metropolitan government responsible for its administration, which is currently distributed by various authorities, which complicates the operation of the city as an entity unitaria.56"
"Currently, the city of Santiago expands throughout thirty communes seven according to the National Institute of Statistics; you twenty-six of them are fully urbanized and the remaining partially Of the 37 communes, are the 32 that make up. the province of Santiago, n 6 to which are added: in the province of Cordillera, the entire Puente Alto, Pirque urban area in the homonymous commune, n 7 and the towns of La Obra and Las Vertientes, belonging the town of San José de Maipo, in the province of Maipo, the municipality of San Bernardo, n 8 and in the province of Talagante, the municipality of Padre Hurtado Although there is no official consensus respect, communes. are usually grouped into seven sectors:. northern, central, northeast, southeast, south, surponiente and norponiente "
"4,313,719 people in Chile claimed to have been born in one of the communes of the Great Santiago according to the census of 2002, equivalent to 28.54% of the national total. Of the people of Santiago at that time, n 1 February 67, 6% claimed to be born in the communes of the metropolitan area while 2.11% were immigrants extranjero.64 Meanwhile, 3.3% of the population of Santiagón 2 said to belong to an indigenous ethnic group: 3.16% of santiaguinos Mapuche considered, aimara 0.05%, 0.03% and 0.02% quechua as nui.64 rapa "
"Due to the great expansion that has had Santiago throughout its history, its population has expanded the initial limits of the city from the Cerro Santa Lucia to sectors of the foothills and the banks of the Maipo River in the east to the plains Maipú by the west. This caused a steady displacement of the main centers of population concentration from the center, which adopted the style of a business district to the periphery. "
"The expansion of the city has also generated noticeable differentiation between different sectors of the city. For example, the sector nororiente (usually grouping the communes of Providencia, Ñuñoa, the Queen, Vitacura, Las Condes and Lo Barnechea) is has established itself as a haven for the wealthy class, becoming the place with better quality of life of the country.65 the peripheral sectors, both of the southwest as the south more Quilicura, they have developed hand in hand with the growth of the middle class since the 1980s, while classes with fewer resources are located in various districts of the northern sector, and especially the sector norponiente south of the capital. "
"According to the CASEN 2006 survey, approximately 10.44% of the inhabitants of Santiago live under the poverty line. San Bernardo is the commune with the largest number of poor, reaching 20.9% of its population, followed by Lo Espejo with 20.1%, with 19.2% Renca and Padre Hurtado with 18.7%. the lowest rate of the sector are the East that do not exceed 5% overall ( the Counts and meeting a minimum with only 2.3%) and San Miguel having 2.5%, preferably inhabited by class population media.66 "
"The city of Santiago is the main pole of economic development of Chile and one of the most important in Latin America. According to the Central Bank, the gross domestic product of the Metropolitan Region in 2005 was 24,461,582 million Chilean pesos (ca. . US $ 35,380 million) 68 and which was equivalent to 43.68% of the total GDP and 46.98% of the GDP regionalized nacional.69 This figure adjusted to the purchasing power parity increases to $ 91 000 million which ranks as the 53rd city with more income, and the fifth city in Latin America (after Mexico city, Buenos Aires, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro). by 2020, its GDP (PPA) would reach US $ 170 000 000 000 with an effective annual growth of 4.1%. "
"The capital is also a major center for tourism development at the national level, being the main gateway to the country through the international airport and the nearby trasandino Los Libertadores, both concentrate 55.2% of the total entrants to the country per year, equivalent to 1,119,840 people in 2005.72 in addition, the main national tourist destination: a study of the national Service of Tourism determined that 52.3% of tourists (domestic and international) were destined category "Santiago and its surroundings", to which 2.9% corresponding to "ski resorts" located mostly to the east of the capital.73 at the regional level, there are 221 hotels that total capacity adds 9240 rooms and 17,147 camas.72 This figure has been steadily increasing since the last few years, especially in the upper 3 star category range due to the establishment of various ca international denas. "
"Basic services are mostly owned by private companies since the late 1980s and early 1990s Chile Enel Distribution is responsible for electricity distribution in 33 communes of Santiago, while in the communes of La Pintana, El forest, San Bernardo, Puente Alto and the south of the metropolitan area are served by the General electric Company, CGE, both utilities served by Interconnected System Central. as for drinking water and sewerage services include Aguas Andinas, owned by the Agbar Group, its subsidiaries and the municipal company SMAPA covering Maipú and surroundings. Metrogas is responsible for the distribution of natural gas coming mainly from southern Argentina through the pipeline GasAndes. "
"In the center of Santiago are diverse constructions built during the Spanish domination and that mostly correspond to Catholic churches, such as the Metropolitan Cathedral and the aforementioned church of San Francisco. Other buildings of the time are those located in sides of the Plaza de Armas, as the seat of the Royal Court, the Post office or the Casa Colorada. "
"There are 18 cinemas in the capital with a total of 144 rooms and over 32 thousand seats, which five centers add film projection arte.78 In recent years there have been several film festivals in the city, the most notable being the SANFIC, launched in 2005 and in its 2007 edition it featured more than 300 performances and 55 000 asistentes.79 "
"According to figures from the 2002 census, 89.49% of the population of Santiagón 2 greater than 5 years is literate, slightly more than the national average. In the distribution to the population over 5 years depending his years of schooling, the majority (18.87%) has 12 years while 5.39% say they have completed at least one year, on average, residents of Santiago have a schooling of 9.26 years of study .64 today, almost all children between 5 and 18 is attending General Basic education and educational Media, which form the twelve-year compulsory education in 2003 established by the Constitution. within the Metropolitan Region there are 2576 urban settlements nursery, primary and secondary education equivalent to the 21,90% of the national total, of which 611 are municipally owned, subsidized private character 1615, 317 individuals and 33 corporations management delegada.82 as a wildebeest number of students, the total regional level 2007 is 1,405,200 students in preschool, primary or secundaria.83 "
"The main sports arena of the country is the National Stadium of Chile, inaugurated in 1938, and with a maximum capacity of 47 000 espectadores87 is the seat of the Chile national football team when they play at home. Other stages of importance are Monumental David Arellano stadium, the San Carlos de Apoquindo stadium, the Estadio Santa Laura stadium and Bicentennial Municipal de La Florida. "
"The main axis corresponds to the Avenue Libertador General Bernardo O'Higgins (better known as Alameda) walking in a southwesterly direction to the northeast the capital, which is further compounded by the Avenida Los Pajaritos to the west and the Providencia and Apoquindo avenues to the east. the main avenue of the city is crossed by several longitudinal axes (in sense north-south) and the avenues General Velasquez, Panamericana, Independence, Grand Avenue, Recoleta, Santa Rosa, Vicuña Mackenna, Macul and Tobalaba. Beside the Alameda, other transverse axes that make up the network are the avenues San Pablo, Irarrázaval, Matta, Greece and Departmental, among others. Finally, the Américo Vespucio Avenue surrounds the inner part of the city facilitating the connection of the various axes . "
"Santiago concentrates almost all the media of the country, both on television, radio and newspapers. National Television of Chile, Channel 13, Mega, Chilevisión, network, TV + and Telecanal are based in the capital. In the case of the press is dominated by two major consortia: El Mercurio SAP (which publishes the namesake newspaper Ultimas Noticias, the evening paper La Segunda and HoyxHoy) and Copesa (published by La Tercera, La Cuarta and La Hora) to these are added. free Publimetro and countless magazines and weeklies like the Clinic as for broadcasting, in Santiago are the main radio stations with national coverage, operated by different consortia, including named. Iberoamericana Radio Chile (PRISA Radio), Group Dial (belonging to Copesa), 13 Radio (Channel 13), Grupo Bethia and Chilean Communications Company. "
"America is the second largest continent on Earth, after Asia. It occupies much of the western hemisphere of the planet. It extends from the Arctic Ocean in the north to the islands Diego Ramirez in the south, at the confluence of the oceans Atlantic and Pacific, which in turn delimit the continent to the east and west, respectively. "
"The name" America "appeared on America of the South, still separated from America north by a narrow inter-oceanic passage. The treaty corrected the Ptolemaic conceptions incorporating the findings of Spanish and Portuguese, but entitled to the new continent America in honor of Amerigo Vespucci to who both treated as the map attributed the descubrimiento.5 July 6 Vespucci, Florentine navigator who made a trip origin to the service of Spain, was probably the first European to suggest that these lands were actually a new continent and not part of Asia as Christopher Columbus thought. Following the line of the other continents with female name, the name of the browser Latinized and feminized, resulting América.8 Thanks to the development of printing, the names of Waldseemüller rapidly disseminated in Europe.9 scientific circles "
.. "In America two independent neolithic revolutions of Africa and Asia occurred in occurred, one in Mesoamerica around the year 8000 BC, 18 and one in the Andean region of South America in the 3500 C.19 Between 4000 and 3000 a. C. indoamericanos.17 major language groups were formed "
"Some historians argue that the Viking settlement in America was the first from the current European territory, although there are theories that Erik the Red anterior.20 presence would have established the first colonies in Greenland in 985. His son, Leif Eriksson would established colonies in the current Newfoundland around the year 1000, which eventually disappear with the passing of the years. "
"From the arrival of Christopher Columbus, the introduction of new diseases such as smallpox was a demographic catastrophe that some researchers estimate even in death of 93% of the población.21 In this context, some European empires conquered and colonized a part of the continent occupied by cultures and civilizations already settled. Spain defeated the great civilizations Aztec and Inca and established his empire along the entire coast of the Pacific and the basin of the Rio de la Plata, while Portugal colonize the coastal strip what is now Brazil. France established some colonies in the coastal strip Atlantic from the current Canada to northern Brazil. the UK was established on the east coast of north America and in some parts of the Caribbean coast. Holland and Denmark established colonies in small islands of the Caribbean and Russia finally conquered the area of ​​Alaska. the Jesuits organized in the region of Alto Parana network Mission-cities, inhabited exclusively by priests and Guarani Indians with exclusive use of the language Guarani great autonomy, which were seen as a state within the Spanish Empire. "
"In the second half of the twentieth century due to the pressure of the decolonization process led by the United Nations, several villages in the Caribbean gained independence from Britain: Belize, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Granada, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saint Lucia, Trinidad and Tobago. Simultaneously, Surinam became independent from the Netherlands and Guyana in the UK. At present, there are still several towns and territories under dominion colonial British, French, Dutch and Danish."
"In America of the North can be identified rivers of the three branches exist: the Mackenzie River which flows into the Arctic slope, the Yukon, Colorado and Columbia rivers are the longest rivers of the slope of the Pacific Ocean, while the slope of the Atlantic highlight the Bravo river North, the Mississippi-Missouri system and the St. Lawrence river. of these emphasizes the Mississippi for being the longest and the largest basin in this area of ​​the continent, the main river of the United States. in lakes, protrude from the region of the Great lakes where the Superior, Huron, Michigan, Ontario and Erie lakes. All of the above lakes share a lacustrine system of glacial origin, whose waters accumulate mainly due to winter thaws . These lakes are connected by rivers, canals and locks, flowing into the Atlantic through the St. Lawrence river. "
"With respect to the fauna of America of the North, on this continent has a great diversity, it more than 400 species of mammals, nearly 1,000 species of birds, over 500 species of reptiles and amphibians and about 100 are 000 insect species. include bears, eagles, turkeys, seals, American bison, wolves, snakes, among others.26 "
"The fauna of Central America has large quantities of mammals that are more common in Guatemala (230 species), Panama (229 species), Nicaragua (225 species), Costa Rica (211 species), El Salvador (210 species) and Honduras (207 species). Mainly are deer, jaguars, pumas, hummingbirds, torogozes, quetzals (bird symbol of Guatemala), buzzards, tapirs and macaws. the animals most common in Central America are Quetzal (Resplendent), green Frog (Agalychnis callidryas), nine-banded armadillo (nine-banded armadillo), American crocodile (Crocodylus acutus), black howler monkey (Alouatta palliata), jaguar, tapirus, anteater, harpy eagle (Harpya harpija), puma and tapir.26 27 28 "
"People in America varies living conditions. Most of the inhabitants of Latin America are young people between 15 and 24 years of age, and life expectancy varies between 70 and 80 years old. [Citation ] in addition, more than half of the population in most countries is rural. Cuba, Chile, Costa Rica, Argentina, Ecuador, Uruguay and Puerto Rico are the Latin American countries with an aging relative demographic structure, since the population 60 years or more it is nearly equal to or greater than 13%. in countries such as Bolivia, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua, Paraguay and the Dominican Republic, there is a higher youth population, predominantly young people between 15 and 25 years age. While in Brazil, Colombia, El Salvador, Panama, Mexico, Peru and Venezuela, also most of its inhabitants are young, although in recent decades you experienced a progressive population aging related to declining birth ity. The same happens in the ultramarine departments of Guadeloupe, French Guiana and Martinique (belonging to France) and in non-Latin countries like Bahamas, Belize, Guyana, Jamaica, Suriname, the Lesser Antilles, Trinidad and Tobago, including European agencies such as the West Indies Antilles, Aruba, etc. In the United States and Canada most of its inhabitants is adult, surpassing the youth population, resembling the process occurred in Europa.40 "
"Gender diversity"
"On the other hand, countries where the majority population is of mixed or mestizo descent (between European and indigenous and less African measure) would be Paraguay, El Salvador, Honduras, Panama, Nicaragua, Ecuador, Mexico and Colombia, in the case of Mexico and Honduras are usually taken to the hispanized indigenous population or predominantly indigenous and mestizo descent. in Venezuela the mestizo population is almost half of the country, in other countries like Belize, Dominican Republic, Peru, Guatemala, Chile and Bolivia mestizos reach two-fifths of the population of these countries. "
"Countries where the percentage of Amerindians have an important influence on the population are from highest to lowest Bolivia, Peru, Guatemala, Ecuador and México.50 Recent studies on the indigenous population, has also been observed that under genetic tests have small percentages . European and African blood in countries such as Uruguay, Cuba, Dominican Republic and Haiti there are almost no indigenous groups native currently: the indigenous contribution was absorbed by the ethnic majority in each country at the time of losing the mother tongue Meanwhile. the African contribution is present with greater force in Haiti, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Belize, Brazil, Colombia, Panama, the United States and Ecuador. Meanwhile, in countries like Chile, El Salvador, Mexico, Guatemala, Paraguay and Argentina the African contribution was absorbed by the ethnic majority in each country, yet retain significant minority. "
"The Portuguese in America is the only official language of Brazil, with a total of more than 200 million speakers. There are large colonies of Brazilian and Portuguese immigrants in the United States, Canada and Venezuela although very minority."
"The Guarani is spoken by more than seven million people, mainly in Paraguay, where it is the official language."
"The mapudungún is the native language spoken by about 440,000 Mapuches in Chile and Argentina."
"The Croatian is spoken in Chile by the large community of immigrants who live in the regions of Antofagasta and Magallanes."
"In America, the most studied languages ​​as a second language are: English, in Spanish-speaking countries and French, and the Spanish and French, in English-speaking countries."
"During the Cold War (1986) the Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic are created under the auspices of the United Nations, in order to maintain security and peace in the South Atlantic and the initiative of Brazil they joined 3 South America (Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay) and 21 African states more. "
"This key can not miss, I keep it here: cGFzczogc3BhbmlzaC5pcy5rZXk ="
"America is characterized by multiple regional organizations seeking economic, social and political integration, the problem lies in that many of these organisms eventually overlap in their activities and their objectives"
"In America we discuss various regional groups by geographic area in America of the North this Free Trade Agreement of America of the North (1994) among the three most important states in the area.. Canada, the United States and Mexico in Central America there is a significant development of integration with the Organization of American States (1951) which was extended to the Central American Common Market (1960) and the Central American integration System (1993), including the Dominican Republic, with mechanisms such as the Central American Parliament (1986) . "
"Santiago is approximately 33 ° 26'16 coordinates" S 70 ° 39'01 "O, at an average altitude of 567 msnm.9 Spanning 837.89 square kilometers, 2 commune forming Santiago counted in 2017 with a population of 6,123,491 inhabitants, equivalent to 34.8% of the total population of the country. Santiago is the most populous sixth metropolitan area of ​​Latin America, also the seventh city most populated in Latin America, and by some estimates, one of the 50 most populated urban agglomerations of the world.10 "
"According to archaeological research, it is believed that in the basin of Santiago the first human groups to the X millennium settled. C.20 These groups were mainly nomadic hunter-gatherers who traveled from the coast inland in search guanacos during the time of the Andean snowmelt. about the year 800 AD began to settle the first sedentary inhabitants due to the formation of agricultural communities next to the Mapocho river, mainly corn, potatoes and beans, and the domestication of auquénidos the whole area. "
"The villages established in areas belonged to picunches groups (name given by Chilean) or promaucaes (name given by Incas), subject to the Inca Empire since the end of the fifteenth century to the beginning of the sixteenth century. The Incas settled in the valley some mitimaes, being the main one installed in the center of the city today, strengths as Huaca de Chena and the sanctuary of Cerro El Plomo.20 the area would have served as a basis for the Inca expeditions to the south and as road junction of the Way of the Inca . "
"Although some institutions were installed in the Patria Vieja as the National Institute and the National Library, they were closed down after the defeat patriot in the battle of Rancagua in 1814. The realistic government would last until 1817, when the Army of the Andes to victory in the battle of Chacabuco, reinstating the government patriot in Santiago. the independence, however, he was not insured and the Spanish army gained new victories and towards 1818 was heading to Santiago, but the burden would definitely stopped in the plains of the Maipo river, during the battle of Maipu, on April 5, 1818. "
"While they called Preservative Republic, various institutions were created, mainly educational as the University of Chile and Fifth Normal of Agriculture. The channels through the city to evacuate wastewater they disappeared giving way to the sewerage system, which joined the first networks of gas, water and public lighting, and in 1851 the first telegraph system was established with Valparaiso. However, a tragic event enlutó the city when more than 2,000 people died in the Church of the Company fire 8 December 1863.28 "
"A new impetus in the urban development of the capital occurred during the call Liberal Republic and the administration of the mayor of the city, Mackenna, within whose main works highlighted the remodeling of Santa Lucia Hill, who went from being a dump a park adorned with works architectural neoclassic, creating a path around the city, which at that time had a similar extension to the present commune of Santiago, and the remodeling of the Alameda. This avenue devoted like the central artery of the city thanks to the development of several small palaces built by the oligarchy benefited from the economic boom resulting from the mining of copper and saltpeter. Many major urban works were financed by voluntary contributions of the illustrious neighbors, emphasizing works like Municipal Theater the Club Hipico or present O'Higgins Park, built by philanthropist Luis Cousiño in 1873.29 "
"The main means of transport The city quickly became the core principal of the Chilean railway system, for more than a century. The railway first arrived in the city on September 14, 1857 and in 1884 was inaugurated Central station of Santiago. five hundred thousand cars and leasing circulated in Santiago towards those years and 45 000 people used the daily tranvía.25 the first telephones were installed during the 1880s and in less than ten years there were more than 1200 lines. "
"In these years, the city center was consolidated as an administrative purely commercial district, financial and, with the establishment of various portals and venues around the street Ahumada and the Barrio Civico in the immediate vicinity of the Palace of La Moneda. This last project involved the construction of several modernist buildings for the establishment of offices of ministries and other public services, 30 giving the kickoff for the construction of medium-rise buildings. on the other hand, the traditional inhabitants of the center began migrating out of the city towards more rural sectors like Providence and Ñuñoa, who welcomed the oligarchy and European immigrants professionals, and San Miguel for middle class families. in addition, on the outskirts began to build various villas for members of various unions of the time. modernity expanded in the city, with the appearance of the first cinemas, l to extension of the telephone network and the opening of the Airport Los Cerrillos in 1928, among other advances. "
"With the start of transition in 1990, the city of Santiago already exceeded the four million people, preferably living in the south. Florida was followed in population by Puente Alto and Maipu real estate development in these communes and others as Quilicura and Peñalolén was due largely to the construction of housing projects for middle class families. Meanwhile, high-income families moved towards the foothills and called Barrio Alto, increasing the population of Las Condes and giving rise to new communes like Vitacura and Lo Barnechea. on the other hand, although poverty began to drop significantly, the strong dichotomy between the mighty globalized large city and slums scattered throughout the capital remained. "
"As we enter the twenty-first century, Santiago persists in his accelerated development. Several urban highways have been built, the neighborhood Civic was renovated with the creation of the Plaza of Citizenship and construction is begun City Park Bicentennial for commemoration of the bicentennial of the Republic. the development of building height continues in the eastern sector, which will culminate with the opening of skyscrapers Titanium La Portada and Gran Torre Santiago in the housing complex Costanera Center. However, socioeconomic inequality and the geo-social fragmentation remain two of the most important problems, both the city and of the country. "
"Water channels also have high levels of pollution, mainly due to the deposit of industrial waste and sewage. The river Maipo and zanjón of Aguada are the channels most affected, but in recent years there have been several initiatives to reduce these problems. several treatment plants have been built and in 2006 its coverage already reached 75% of wastewater urbanas.55 Finally, the city produces a large light pollution which has affected and practically impossible the work of various astronomical enclosures located to the inner city. "
"With the current territorial structure of the country, it is divided into three levels (regions, provinces and municipalities), but Santiago does not fit perfectly with any of them. Although the Metropolitan Region of Santiago was created in 1976 to encompass a created metropolitan area two years ago from the former province of Santiago, this includes a number of locations away from the main city, as Melipilla and Talagante. at the provincial level, the Great Santiago exceeds the limits of the present province of Santiago, including the Cordillera, Maipo and Talagante. at the community level, the city is composed of thirty of these. "
"Over the years and the constant expansion of the city, was necessary division of the territory in order to improve management and increase local participation in decision-making. In 1891, the Act dictates of Organization and Attributions of municipalities (better known as the Law of Independent Commune), which in the case of Santiago stipulated the creation of 10 constituencies, composed of a "local board" of three elected municipal and together would form the municipality. the Decree of creation of municipalities definitively divided the departments in new municipalities that grouped one or more sub-delegations away from the provincial capital. the municipality of Santiago was composed of the districts of Santa Lucia, Santa Ana, Portales, Season, Cañadilla, Recoleta, Maestranza, University, San Lazaro and . Parque Cousino addition other rural municipalities around the city are created: Ñuñoa, Maipú, Hill, Lampa and Renca, which , Over the years, they continue subdividing into new municipalities. "
"With the process of regionalization of the 1970s, the departments are suppressed, organizing the country, at the local level, in communes administered by municipalities, also in 1974 the metropolitan area of ​​Santiago is created, comprising the former province of Santiago, with excluding the department of San Antonio, whose system of government and administration would be set by a special law. However, in 1976 he became the metropolitan region, divided into three provinces, and these in communes. "
"Each of these communes is governed independently, as an autonomous body, by a mayor who presides over a council composed of councilors. Both mayors and councilors are elected in popular elections are direct."
"Santiago's population has aged over the past decades, thus decreasing fertility and by improving the quality of life. According to the 2017 census, n 2 27.04% of men and 24, 51% of women in the communes of Santiago were under 20 years, while 13,56% and 17,76 one% had over 60 years, respectively.3 in contrast, the total number of children under 20 years in 1992 it was 38.04% and over 60, only 8.86% .60 "
"This trend, however, has declined in the last decade. The communes most plants have undergone major processes of densification and verticalization. According to the census of 2017, the municipality of Santiago became the third most populous country with a total of 404,495 inhabitants, 3 double its population in 15 years. "
"In Santiago the main theater companies are located, hosting several national and international works, reaching its highest expression during the International Theater Festival known as Santiago a Mil, which is held each summer since 1994 and has gathered more than espectadores.77 million addition is the Planetarium Chile. "
"Currently, nine teams of Santiago plays in Chilean professional football, six of which are active in the First Division (Audax Italiano, Colo-Colo, Palestino, Union Spanish, Catholic University and Universidad de Chile) and three in the First B (Barnechea, Magallanes and Santiago Morning). Colo-Colo, Universidad de Chile and Universidad Catolica are considered the top teams in the country, reaching not only important stakes in the national championship but also in international events (such as the Copa Libertadores or Copa Sudamericana). Among these teams compete for the superclásico traditionally and Classic College, and together are the most popular in the country, with an estimated 89% of the population nacional.86 adhesion "
"Santiago has a privileged location next to the Andes for the development of winter sports. To the northeast of the city, less than 35 kilometers away, the winter resorts of El Colorado, Farellones, La Parva and Valle Nevado are located, the latter the largest ski area in the sur88 hemisphere and home to the world championship organized by the FIS.89 Another snowboard ski center, Lagunillas, is located southeast of the capital but it is smaller than before. "
"One of the fundamental axes of Transantiago Metro de Santiago is that since its inception in 1975, is regarded as one of the most efficient systems and modern transportation Latinoamérica.93 Every day, more than 2.6 million people pass for six lines (1, 2, 4, 4A, 5 and 6), which extend more than 119 kilometers and 118 stations. After the opening line 6 November 2017, it is expected that in 2019 the new line 3 does reach 138 km long and 220 km for the year 2026 with projected lines 7, 8 and 9, further extensions of lines 2, 3 and 4. "
"Santiago is considered one of the safest cities in Latinoamérica70 with a homicide rate that according to some studies varies between 2 and 6 homicides to the year 100 000 99 habitantes.98 Nationally, it is the seventh minor rate of victimization in the 17 largest cities in the country, with 30.1% of people who have the least one family member who has been a victim of theft or attempted theft during the past six months, a figure 0.5 % lower than the national average the disaggregate this figure by communes, lower rates are in the communes of the sector nororiente with Las Condes leading by only 18%;. on the other hand, communes with the highest victimization rates are Conchalí and the forest with 38.9% and 38.5% respectivamente.100 the city center, meanwhile, it has a low rate of victimization of 20.9% due to shoplifting and robos.101 "
"With an area of ​​more than 43,316,000 square kilometers, it is the second largest land mass of the balloon, covering 8.4% of the total area of ​​the planet and 30.2% of the landmass, and further concentrating near of 12% of the human population. the largest urban agglomerations of America are Mexico City, New York, São Paulo, Los Angeles, Rio de Janeiro, Buenos Aires and Santiago de Chile. "
"The words America and American are understood in different ways in different languages, which can cause misunderstandings in the Germanic languages ​​like English, the English word 'America' is a false friend;.. Usually does not mean America, but the United States America . translates into English as the Americas 'Americas' a similar situation is in Spanish, where US sometimes wants to say to America but specifically American; use is not recommended, as clarified by the Royal Academy Spanish in his " panhispánico dictionary of doubt "15"
"Christopher Columbus takes possession of the island Guanahani."
"After three centuries of colonial rule, the American people began to declare their independence claiming their right to organize themselves as national states, confronting militarily European powers, thereby opening the global process of decolonization. The first to do so were the Thirteen British colonies by the American Revolution that gave birth to the United States of America in 1776, organizing a new type of society from political novel concepts such as independence, constitution, federalism and rights of Man. "
"Among the most important political events in the contemporary history of America are the Mexican Revolution (1910-1917), the Cold War (1945-1991) that frontally opposed to the United States and the Soviet Union and led to a succession of dictatorships Latin America and the Cuban Revolution (1959). in the 1960s and 1970s the emergence of rock and roll, as a result of the fusion of Afro-American cultures and its global spread, and youth movements radicals, led to a profound cultural change . from the 1980s the concentration of companies and universities and technological innovations produced in the Silicon Valley in California, turned the region axis of the Information Society. "
"Apart from the Brazilian massif and the Guiana Shield, the mountain range, separated from a strip of mountainous terrain such as the Andes, the mountain resort of Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta is considered the largest mountain range in the world located near of a coastal shoreline, which rises steeply from the coast of the Caribbean sea to reach a height of 5,775 meters at its snowy peaks, located just 42 kilometers from este.24 "
"I have to keep the key machine: dXNlcjogc2VjdXJpdHkg"
"Central America Continental"
"The Caribbean or West Indies"
"South America"
"America of the South is home to species like penguins, red fox, hornero, flamingo, whale flanca austral, Jaguar, puma, toucan, Otaria flavescens, Andean condor, capybaras, anteaters, peccaries, giant otter, rattlesnakes, cuaima-pineapple, while iguanas, morrocoy, porpoises, large reptiles such as the green anaconda, the crocodile of the Orinoco, the spectacled caiman, other mammals like the manatee, Amazonian manatee, spectacled bear, ocelot, vinegar fox, foxes, tapirs, sloths, possums, armadillo and venados.33 34 35 "
"In subtropical areas near latitude 30 ° arid zones are located, desert-like Sonoran Desert (southern United States and northern Mexico) and Atacama (in northern Chile), while in Patagonia a cold desert climate develops. "
"Given its cultural and economic characteristics, the continent can be divided into Anglo-Saxon America and Latin America."
"Latin America, located to the south, with countries where they speak mostly Castilian and Portuguese and mostly profess the Catholic religion. It has higher percentages of rural population EE. UU. And Canada. In their economies has a greater weight the primary sector or extractives (agriculture, livestock, etc.). most of the country is sparsely industrialized or only recently industrialized except in cases of Mexico, Brazil and Argentina with a thriving industry and developing in other countries in the region, lower GDP per capita values ​​and lower human development index (some countries, with rates very low) 36 37 "
"The location small countries and dependencies of language and non-Latin tradition of the Caribbean and the tropical zone is a matter discusión.38 For their linguistic and cultural characteristics, countries like Bahamas, Belize, Guyana, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago and other countries of the Lesser Antilles can be included in America Anglosajona.37 However there is the possibility of incorporating the Caribbean to the concept of Latin America for their common historical relationships, forms of cultural development similar. So it would include the Caribbean English and Dutch. 39 These countries and dependencies share the economic reality of the rest of Latin America. Since last this criterion would have a clear boundary between the two Americas would be the border between EE. UU. and Mexico and the Florida Straits that separates EE. UU. from Cuba."
"In America a positive balance between men and women present, the rate of women being a 3 or 5% more than men in most countries. 41 As regards sexual orientation, with the exceptions of Canada, 42 Uruguay, 43 Argentina43 and Costa Rica, 44 people of other countries is almost entirely heterosexual, however regarding the acceptance of this, America presents an overview of opinions and viewpoints that differ in some countries others, for example, in many countries of the Caribbean including Belize, Surinam and Guyana are managed policies where homosexuals are sentenced to prison, the only exception is Puerto Rico has been in the most liberal and favorable countries in this regard also in some overseas dependencies and the Dominican Republic homosexuality it is legal however the latter has no laws to protect them. in the case of Latin America, in all countries if legal sexual diversity, although on the one hand, in Ecuador, Peru, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Bolivia, El Salvador, Paraguay and Honduras are still homophobic attitudes and is still considered a taboo subject mainly in the last, however on the other hand in Uruguay, Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Panama and Venezuela there is greater acceptance of homosexuality mainly in the first; at continental level Canada and the northern region of the United States (where states are more liberal) have the greatest diversity of sexual orientation and acceptance of this. 45 Currently, same-sex marriage is legal in Canada, Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay, Puerto Rico, United States and Colombia, including some states in Mexico. 46 "
"The American population is made up of a billion people approximately descendants of three major ethnic groups, as well as miscegenation between them: Amerindians and Eskimos (who were the original inhabitants of America), European (of Spanish origin, Portuguese, British, French, Italian, German, Dutch, Danish, Slavic and Irish, which total approximately 573 million people, equivalent to just over 50% of the American population) and sub-Saharan African descendants of slaves. There are also descendants of other immigrants, more recent, especially Asians, both the environment and of the Far East. "
"Spanish is spoken by over 400 million people, concentrated mainly in Mexico, Central and South America. There are also important Spanish-speaking communities in the United States, Canada and some in Brazil and some islands of the Caribbean. (See geographical distribution of the Spanish language ). "
"English is spoken as a mother tongue for more than 350 million people. It is the most spoken language in the United States, Canada, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, and other ex-colonies or British dependencies in the Lesser Antilles and the Atlantic south. it's official in Belize (spoken by only 3% of the population, since 50% of it is Spanish speaking) and Puerto Rico which is present as a second official language. "
"French is spoken in America for more than 20 million French speakers (less numerous than in Europe or Africa but divided into the three Americas). In North America spoken in Canada where is the official language, spoken mainly in the provinces of Québec ( where it is the majority) and in New Brunswick, on the islands Saint Pierre and Miquelon where it is also an official language (French territorial collectivity) and part of the United States (states of Maine and Louisiana) in the region of Central America and the. Caribbean is official in Haiti and several islands of the Lesser Antilles and the French departments of Guadeloupe and Martinique, and the islands of Saint Martin and Saint Barthelemy (local authorities French), and also spoken in Dominica and St. Lucia. in South America: it is official in the French department of French Guiana ".
"The Dutch is spoken in Suriname and is an official language on the islands of Aruba, Bonaire, Curacao, Sint Maarten, Sint Eustatius and Saba."
"The Venetian is spoken mainly in Mexico and Brazil."
"Portuguese is spoken in Venezuela by the great Portuguese colony distributed throughout the length and breadth of the country (Venezuela concentrates the third largest in the world Portuguese colony). It also is spoken on the borders of the countries bordering Brazil. The mixture the Spanish and Portuguese languages ​​give rise to variant called Portuñol. "
"America is politically divided into 35 independent countries and 23 offices of European countries (Denmark, UK, France and the Netherlands) and the United States. In addition there are 4 integrated territories in France and therefore are part of the European Union. The American states are born at the end of the eighteenth century (United States) and principles of the XIX (Latin America and Haiti) as a result of the war process of decolonization of powers such as Britain, France, Spain and Portugal. Finally Caribbean territory achieved independence between the end of the nineteenth century (Cuba and the Dominican Republic) and XX (other Caribbean islands). century "
"Santiago is usually positioned as a leading city in Latin America in a series of social, economic and environmental factors. The Chilean capital is the second most competitive city in Latin America, second only to São Paulo, 11 n 3 as well as the . third with better quality of life -the second in South America and the 90th in the world-12 and the safest in Latin America also is regarded as a global city of Beta class - "13 and the 53rd city with incomes over the world, with a GDP (PPP) of USD 91 000 million in 2005 and an estimated 160 000 million USD to 2020.14 "
"The investigator Ruben Stehberg of the National Museum of Natural History and Gonzalo Sotomayor University Andres Bello gathered evidence of research presented in 1976, more historical documents, and it added new evidence to prove that beneath the old town of Santiago, find an Incan city, vestiges of the occupation of the Tawantinsuyu in the middle courses of the rivers Mapocho and Maipo.n 5 the occupation authorities had kings and along the valleys to reach Mapocho, but they would have been killed during the it conquest of Diego de Almagro. the Inca city of Mapocho compared it as written demonstrated in the study, as another version of the Inca capital Cuzco, a place flourishing mining and agriculture. therefore, it shows that Pedro de Valdivia founded Santiago did not really, but traveled directly to populate and take possession of the ciudad.23 24 "
"Already they are concluding the century collection systems rainwater were built to prevent flooding in the center and the canalization of the Mapocho, for the demolition of the embankments and the Bridge of Calicanto was necessary would be initiated, which occurred on 10 August 1888. by then, Santiago had a population of about 256 000 inhabitants, scattered over an area of ​​3766 hectáreas.25 Many of these people lived in slums, excluded from the urban development fomented by the oligarchy, outside the edges of the city and western districts of Yungay and Chuchunco.20 "
"View of the Alameda in 1930."
"In the following decades, Santiago continued to grow unabated. In 1940, the city accumulated 952,075 inhabitants, in 1952 this figure had risen to 1,350,409 inhabitants and the census of 1960 totaled 1,907,378 santiaguinos. This growth was reflected in urbanization of rural areas on the periphery, where families of middle and lower classes were established with stable housing: in 1930, the urban area had an area of ​​6500 hectares, which in 1960 reached 20 900 in 1980 to 38 296. While most of the communes continued to grow, it is mainly concentrated in peripheral communes like Ravines to the west, Conchalí to the north and the Cistern and the Farm to the south. the lower classes settled through illegal occupations ( 'you take land '), of which the most emblematic were Populations Recabarren (1947), Zañartu (1947), Los Nogales (1948) and La Victoria (1957), although there were also buying sites from the 30s and access to housing member were built by the state and boxes previsión.31 In the case of the upper class, it began to approach the area of ​​the foothills of Las Condes and La Reina. The center, on the contrary, lost inhabitants leaving more space for the development of trade, banking and government activities. "
"This growth was made without any regulation and only began to be implemented during the 1960s with the creation of various development plans of the Great Santiago, a concept that reflected the new reality of a much larger city. In 1958 he was released on Plan intercommunal de Santiago and that proposed the organization of the urban territory, setting a limit of 38,600 urban and semi-urban hectares, for a maximum population of 3,260,000 inhabitants, building new avenues such as Américo Vespucio Avenue and route 5 Panamerican , the widening of existing and the establishment of 'industrial belts'. the celebration of the 1962 FIFA World Cup gave a new push to works of improvement of the city. in 1966 the Metropolitan Park of Santiago was established on the hill San Cristobal and MINVU began the eradication of shanty towns and housing starts as the San Borja, whose CERC Anaiah was built Diego Portales Building. "
"In 1967, was inaugurated the new International Airport Pudahuel and, after years of discussion, in 1969 start would be given to the construction of the Metro de Santiago, the first phase would run under the western section of the Alameda and would be inaugurated in 1975. the Metro would become one of the most prestigious buildings in the city and in the following years would continue to expand, reaching two perpendicular lines at the end of 1978. the telecommunications would also have an important development, reflected with the construction of Entel Tower, which since its construction in 1975 would be one of the symbols of the capital being the tallest structure in the country for two decades. "
"After the coup of 1973 and the establishment of military dictatorship, urban planning was not great changes until beginning of the 1980s, when the government adopted a neoliberal economic model and the role of organizer goes from the state to the market. In 1979 regulatory plan is modified, extending the urban radius to more than 62 000 ha for real estate development, causing a new sprawl of the city, reaching 40,619 ha in size in the early 1990s, especially in the area La Florida, in the 1992 census became the most populous municipality in the country, with 328,881 inhabitants. As a strong earthquake struck the city on March 3, 1985, that although caused little victims, left numerous victims and it destroyed many old buildings. "
"The area of ​​Avenida Providencia consolidated as a major commercial hub in the area east to the 1990s, this development was extended to the Barrio Alto which became an attractive pole for the construction of high-rise buildings. The main companies and financial corporations were established in the area, giving rise to a modern and vibrant business center known as Sanhattan. the departure of these companies to the Barrio Alto and construction of shopping centers all around the city, they caused a crisis in the city center, which had to reinvent itself: its main commercial streets became pedestrian walkways, as the Paseo Ahumada, and tax benefits were instituted for the construction of residential buildings, attracting mainly young adults. "
"In recent decades, urban growth has expanded the boundaries of the city to the eastern sector closer to the Andean foothills, inhabiting cones existing dejection. Even in areas like La Dehesa, Lo Curro and El Arrayan has been reached overcome the barrier of 1000 meters altitud.38 Some spurs of low height flow from the Andes and deep into the basin, as in the case of the mountain range of the pyramid and the hill Cerro San Cristobal in the sector nororiente from Santiago."
"The city of Santiago is nestled in the river basin of the Maipo River, covering an area of ​​approximately 15,380 km². The main channel was born in the mountain range to the south of Santiago, in the foothills of the homonymous volcano and descends the ridge-shaped a canyon known as the drawer of the Maipo in this area where three major tributaries channels. Volcán river that is born under the San José volcano and has some hot springs and baths Morales, the Yeso river in whose upper reaches is located the El Yeso , which is the main source of drinking water for the whole metropolitan region, and the Colorado river. After leaving the area of ​​the foothills, the type Maipo to the Santiago basin, approaching the urban radius of the city marking the border between the Puente Alto district and commune Pirque newly built. Later the river moves away to the southwest, being of great importance for agricultural development in rural areas around Santiago, to finally follow its way to the Pacific Ocean, leading to the village of Llolleo in the V Region of Valparaiso. "
"This amount of contrast rain with the figures of the months corresponding to a very dry season, produced by an anticyclonic domain uninterrupted for about seven or eight months, mainly during the summer, between December and March. At this station, water fall sector averages four mm. "
"The location of Santiago within a watershed is one of the most important factors in the climate of the city. The ridge serves coastal as 'climate biombo' to the oppose the spread of marine influence, contributing to increased thermal oscillation annual and daily (the difference between maximum and minimum daily temperatures can easily exceed 15 ° C) and maintaining a low relative humidity, close to an average of 70% 41 also prevents the entry of air masses except for some low clouds coastal entering the basin through the river valleys. "
"The prevailing winds are from the southwest direction, with an average intensity of 20 km / h, especially during the summer because in winter the calm prevail."
"A serious environmental problem that undergoes Santiago corresponds to air pollution exists. The enclosure of the city produces the accumulation of a layer of smog over the city from the last decades, which is compounded during the winter months due to various weather events such as thermal inversion and the coastal valley and the considerable reduction of the masses circulating air in the basin. This, coupled with the very cold season, produces a significant increase in respiratory conditions, especially infants and older adults who come even collapse the health care system in Santiago. "
"In general, two types of bodies are involved in the administration of the city. On the one hand, there are thirty-seven municipalities responsible for local administration of each commune, and led by a mayor and advised by a council, . popularly elected manager of the senior management of the Metropolitan Region is the Regional Government, formed by the Regional, also elected by popular vote, and the Mayor, Council who presides and is appointed directly by the President of the Republic; in addition, the same Mayor rightful government of the region, as a natural and immediate representative of the President of the Republic, acting generally within their means, as coordinator for matters affecting several communes. Since March 11, 2018 the office of Mayor Santiago Metropolitan is played by Karla Rubilar. "
"In colonial times, the manager of the local administration was the city council, which changed its name to Municipality with the Constitution of 1823. Since 1833, the whole city and the towns of the department were administered by the same municipality, which it began to be called "departmental municipality" and was chaired by the provincial mayor. the election of municipal (3 mayors and aldermen) was introduced in 1876. "
"Subsequently, the Constitution of 1925 arises in Chile commune like the territorial division of a municipality. In this new constitutional framework, the commune -Division administratively equivalent to the sub -Division politics. In 1927, he joined the department Santiago de La Victoria, who was to head the city of San Bernardo, and 10 urban communes are deleted and the commune is created from Santiago, administered by the homonymous municipality. in the following decades, are created four new departments (San Bernardo , Talagante, Puente Alto and President Aguirre Cerda), creating new urban centers, while several of the communes of rural character are reached by the expansion of the Santiago city. "
"With the independence of the country, the capital remained in Santiago, where new political institutions settled. The bodies representatives of the three powers of the State remained in Santiago since that time, except for the National Congress which was held in Valparaiso during 1828 and he was transferred to that city in 1990 in order to promote decentralization of power. However, much of the political activity continues to develop in Santiago, so on several occasions discussed the possibility of returning the seat of Congress the capital nacional.58 "
"The vast majority of public services and institutions of the State of national character are headquartered in Santiago, with very few exceptions, among which are counted the Commander in Chief of the Chilean Navy, the Undersecretary of Fisheries, the Service national Fisheries, the national Customs Service and the national Council for Culture and the Arts, located in Valparaiso, Forest Institute in San Pedro de la Paz. and the Chilean Antarctic Institute in Punta Arenas "
"In Santiago is the palace of the Courts of Justice of Santiago de Chile, the building that houses the Supreme Court of Chile, the Court of Appeals of Santiago and the Court Martial of the Army, Air Force and Police. Is located in the commune of Santiago, in the street Company, between Morandé and Flag, in front of the Montt Varas square. "
"According to data collected in the 2017 census conducted by the National Institute of Statistics, the population of the communities that form Santiago stood at 6,209,755 inhabitants, equivalent to 35.33% of the total national and 87.33% to the of the total regional.n 2 3 This figure reflects the broad growth in the population of the city during the twentieth century: in 1907 there were 383,587 inhabitants, 1,010,102 in 1940, 2,009,118 in 1960, 3,899,619 in 1982 , 4,729,118 in 1992 and 5,428,590 in 2002.61 62 "
"The growth of Santiago has undergone several changes throughout its history. In his early years, had a growth rate of 2.68% per annum until the seventeenth century, then down to smaller numbers to 2% per year until the beginning of the century XX. in the middle of this century there was a population explosion that is explained because, in his capacity as capital successively absorbed the migration from the mining camps of northern Chile during the crisis of the 1930s and from population since the rural sectors between 1940 and 1960, mainly. the large amount of migration added to the high fertility rate at that time were reflected in annual growth figures reached 4.92% between 1952 and 1960. However, since the end of the century, the growth figures have declined again, reaching 1.35% in early 2000.63 Similarly, the size of the city has constantly expanded. the 20 0 00 hectares covering Santiago in 1960, doubled before 1980 and in 2002 reached 86,778 hectares. Thus, the density of population in Santiago was 6,255.9 inhabitants / km² in the year 2002.62 "
"According to the last census, the 67.91% of those over 15 years santiaguinos claimed to be Catholic. This percentage increases mainly in the communes of higher income (Pirque reaches 81.8% and Vitacura, 77.92%) while descending in minor, with a minimum of 57.84%, in La Pintana. This is mainly explained by the large increase in members of the evangelical church, which adhere one 13,20% of santiaguinos and It has its maximum number of followers in the Pintana, with 23.82%, whereas in Providencia represent only 3.68% of the población.64 "
"Within the metropolitan area of ​​Santiago, there are 174 heritage sites in the custody of the Council of National Monuments, 74 among them are archaeological, architectural and historical, as well as neighborhoods and typical areas. Of these, 93 are within the commune of Santiago, considered the historic center of Santiago ciudad.75 Although no monument has been declared a World Heritage Site by Unesco three have already been proposed by the Chilean government: the Incan sanctuary of Cerro El Plomo, church and convent of San Francisco and the palace of La Moneda.76 "
"Several green areas in the city contain within and around various sites of patrimonial character. Among the most important are the fortifications of the Cerro Santa Lucia, the sanctuary of the Virgin Mary at the summit of Cerro San Cristobal, lavish crypts of the General Cemetery of Santiago, Parque Forestal, O'Higgins Park and Parque Quinta Normal. "
"For the realization of diverse musical cultural, artistic and there are various precincts within which include the Mapocho Cultural Center, the Centro Cultural Matucana 100, Centro Cultural Gabriela Mistral, the Centro Cultural Palacio de La Moneda, the Movistar Arena and Caupolicán Theater. on the other hand, ballet and opera performances are permanently hosted by the Teatro Municipal in Santiago, located in the heart of the city, which has a capacity of 1500 spectators. "
"Interior of the Centro Cultural Gabriela Mistral."
"In 2005, 49.7% of college students nationwide were concentrated in the metropolitan area (where almost all of the schools are within the urban area of ​​Santiago) equivalent to 663,679 students. Of these , 25.77% are in traditional universities, one private universities 44.70%, 19.62% in technical training centers and institutes 9.91% profesionales.85 in the city are located the central houses of the leading universities of the country, five of them belonging to the Council of Rectors: Chile, Santiago, Catholic, UMCE and Universidad Tecnológica Metropolitana (UTEM) ".
"The main sport practiced in Santiago is football, and the like in the rest of the country. In 1903 he founded the Football Association of Santiago grouping the first clubs of this sport. Although Valparaiso was the headquarters of the football of the time Santiago began to rival hegemony since the 1920s and finally the headquarters of the football Federation of Chile moved its headquarters from the port to the capital. of the 101 national matches of professional soccer made since 1933, 81 times has left champion by santiaguino team. "
"Various sports are practiced in Santiago, but they have much less competition than football. Although historically the city has hosted matches of the Chilean Davis Cup team (including the 1976 final), in recent years has lost hegemony in tennis including the transfer of the Chile Open Viña of the Sea in 2001. as for basketball, Catholic University has been champion 5 times of DIMAYOR. the Chilean roundup, unlike the smaller cities, is not widely practiced and performed rodeos mainly in rural districts such as San Bernardo and Maipú or on rare occasions in Medialuna Las Condes. During the Fiestas Patrias they are made more rodeos in the call Week Chilenidad. as for athletics the biggest event held annually is the Marathon Santiago, home to about 30,000 participants between professionals and amateurs, involved in the categories marathon, Half marathon and 10K trotted through the streets of Santiago or."
"The city has hosted several important events. In Santiago have played the finals of the America's Cup (1926, 1941, 1945, 1955, 1991 and 2015) of the 1953 FIBA ​​World Championship for Women of the World Basketball Championship 1959 of the 1962 FIFA World Cup, the 1976 Davis Cup, World Championships Polo 1992 and 2015 World Cup Youth 1987 Women's World Cup U-20 2008 . as for multisport tournaments, Santiago hosted the III South American Games in 1986 and was elected headquarters twice the Pan American Games, but for various reasons it never harbored ha. the economic and political problems forced the resignation of events 1975 and 1987, while the II Pan American winter Games set for 1993 were canceled by PASO due to lack of interest of the participants and administrative problems. in 2014, Santiago hosted the X Thu gos South Americans. "
"In Santiago there are several services intercity buses, one of the most important means of transport with other Chilean cities;. Also there are some bus services to cities across the border and even countries Brazil These services are concentrated in the Alameda Terminal, Santiago , San Borja and the Heroes, located in the city center. in the case of the Terminal San Borja, there are some routes of buses to nearby towns such as Talagante, Peñaflor and Melipilla, which in recent years have acquired the status of cities Santiago bedrooms. "
"Santiago accounts for 37.32% of Chile's vehicle fleet, with a total of 991,838 vehicles, 979,346 of which are motorized. 805,220 cars pass through the city, equivalent to 37.63% of the total national and one rate of one car for every 7 habitantes.92 to support this huge park, an extensive network of avenues and streets spans Santiago in order to provide connectivity to the different communes that make up the metropolitan area. "
"Other local transport systems include the services of 25 thousand 11 thousand taxis and collective taxis, identified by automobiles of black and colored roof amarillo.92 As for cycling in Santiago can be found bike rental, the main driven Bikesantiago Banco Itau and Bici Las Condes Municipality of Las Condes, along with her various municipalities have tried to promote the use of bicycles by building bike paths. "
"The value of urban transport depends on the combination of type of transport chosen by the user, and the use of buses (also called micros) has the lowest cost across all time sections. The current cost of the ticket ranges from $ 650 (USD $ 0.98) to $ 780 (USD $ 1.18) depending on the horario.94 according to the report by Moovit in July 2017, the average time people spend on public transport in Santiago, by example to and from work in a day is 84 min., while 23% of people spend more than two hours daily. the average time people waiting at a stop or station is 15 min., while 21% of people waiting more than 20 minutes each day. the average distance that usually people go in one trip is 7.4 km., while 15% travel more than 12 km in one direction. 95 "
"A the same as in the rest of the country, the security of the population of Santiago is in the hands of Carabineros de Chile, which has 55 stations along the capital plus four police special forces, a mounted two minors, one family matters and subpolice, which are divided into five prefectures: Center, East, West, North, South and Cordillera.97 to them the work of the Investigations Police of Chile and the services of various agencies adds of the Judiciary. "
"Despite being considered a" relatively safe "city, the level of fear in the population has grown significantly in recent times. In 2007, 22% of the population expressed a" high fear "of having some kind crime against him, while in previous years the figures were considerably lower (in 2000 it was 13.4% and in 2005 15.8%). compared to other cities in the country, the average of this index out of capital is 15.9% and even this figure is higher than in the cities with the highest rate of victimization: Iquique and Talca who own 37.5% and 35.9% of victimization, only 17.7% and 18.9% of the respective population manifests a "high fear". in the breakdown by municipalities, again the lowest figures are in the eastern sector, with Ñuñoa with 10%, and the highest in the woods, 32.5% .100 This high degree of insecurity felt by the population has been described as huge product gaps that Diff an the inhabitants of the city and the role of the media, including otros.102 "
